Page 1 (OCR)
NEELAM MAKKAL 
An Educational Initiative by
VASANTH
COLLECTED
WORK
OF
PERIYAR
EVR
Educational Edition Released by NEELAM MAKKAL
(Founder: VASANTH)

Page 2 (OCR)

The pimary abjective of this platform is to ensure that the history and ideologies of our great leaders reach every
citizen of India. Knowledge shoud never be locked behind a paywal; therefore, overy book avalable on the Neelam
Makkal webslte is provided entirly free of cost
It is my fm
m belief tha
Through the
Welcone to the Neelam Makkal Digital Lilury
We operate this platform as a dedicated public service, not a commercial venture. We do not charge for access, nor
do we accept payments for these resources. COur mission is to empower every individual with the oppartunity ta
study the lvgs and visions of icons like Babasahgb Ambedkar, Parvar, Bhagat Singh, and may other rgvolutionary
Preface
citize
Drary,
leaders who shaped our nation.
Let us read, learn, and lead.
nd understand the strugales of their keaders
rate society.
in Service, of the People.

Page 3

PERIYAR E.V. RAMASAMY -
   A biographical Sketch 
PERIYAR E.V. RAMASAMY was born at Erode town in
Tamil Nadu State - India Father : VENKATA (NAICKER)
A popular rich merchant; Ardent devotee of Hindu religion.
1879Sep17
(A Vaishnavite)Mother : CHINNA THAYAMMAL alias
MUTHAMMAL Brother-Elder : E.V. Krishnasamy Sisters-
Younger : KANNAMMAL;PONNUTHOY
* He was sent to a small primary school normally run at a
1885Age6
House - pial in those days.
1889Age10 * His school career ended within 5 years.
1891Age12 * He entered into his father’s trade.
* He used to hear Tamil Vaishnav religious Gurus talks on
mythologies at his house, enjoying their hospitability. As a
boy, he started questioning the contradictions and illusions in
the fables of Hindu deities spread by the Aryan Race ie.,
1895
Brahmins for subjugating Dravidian Race.
* Blossoming of rationalism and atheism slowly in the brain
of this youth - Ramasamy.
*He married NAGAMMAL, aged 13.
*He reformed his orthadox wife and sowed rationalistic views
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 4

1898 in her mind.
1900 He became the father of a female - child which expired
within 5 months and thereafter he had no children.
* He undertook “renunciation” of family because of the harsh
reprimand by his father.
1904
* He went first to Vijayawada in Andhra State. Then he
proceeded to Hyderabad and Kolkatta.
INSULT AT KAASI ENLIGHTENS HIS RATIONALISM
* He reached Kaasi (Varanasi), a noted sacred town of Hindu
pilgrimage on the bank of the River Ganges. There he could
not get free meals easily at choultries which exclusively fed
Brahmins forbidding other Hindu castes.
* Having starved severely for some days, this handsome
young man Ramasamy found no other better way than to
enter a choultry with the appearance of a Brahmin wearing a
thread on his bare chest. But his moustache betrayed him. So
the gate-keeper not only prevented his entry but also pushed
him rudely to the street.
* At that moment, as the feast was over inside the choultry,
the leaves with food left over were thrown at the street. The
unbearable burning of starvation for the past few days forced
Ramasamy to compete with the street - dogs in eating the
remnants of food in the leaves.
* While eating that food, the eyes of Ramasamy looked at the
letters carved at the frontal wall of the building. They
revealed the truth that the choultry exclusively occupied by
the highest caste viz., Brahmins, had been built only by a
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 5

wealthy merchant of Dravidian Race from Tamil Nadu.
* Suddenly in the mind of this young man, some questions
could have sparked such as: “Why and how the Brahmins can
obstruct the Dravidians from taking meals in the choultry
although the choultry was built with the money of a
Dravidian Philanthropist? Why the Brahmins behaved so
mercilessly and fanatically as to push the communities of the
Dravidian race even to starvation - death by adamantly
enforcing their evil casteism?”
* No justifiable answers came to convince the judicious
thinking of Periyar on the above questions.
* The disgrace inflicted by the Brahmins at KAASI upon him
without the least mercy, made a deep wound in the heart of
Periyar and it inflamed intense hatred towards that Aryan race
and their creation of innumerable Gods.
* Though Kaasi (Varanasi) has been acclaimed as the most
“sacred town” by the Brahmins, the worst ugly scenes of
immoral activities, prostitution, cheating, looting, begging
crowds for alms, floating dead bodies on the River Ganges
turned Periyar to abhor that so-called holy-town.
Consequently, a re-thinking on his renunciation led him to
return to his family life.
* On returning to Erode - his father delegated all his trade
rights to this second son and renamed his major commercial
concern under the title: “E.V. Ramasamy Naicker Mandi”
SELFLESS SOCIAL SERVICES
* Besides being a well-known wealthy businessman in Erode
Mr. E.V.R. entered into public life by rendering social
services selflessly.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 6

* One noteworthy instance: Once the dreadful contagious
disease plague attacked Erode. Hundreds of people died and
thousands fled for saving their life. But this noble man did not
desert his native town like other rich merchants. He himself
carried the dead bodies on his back to the cremation ground
1905onwards
while even the close kith and kin did not touch the expired
persons for last rites due to the fear of the contagion of the
plague disease.
* He commanded enormous influence over other traders in
the bazaar street of Erode. He mediated and solved many
disputes among the businessmen with neutrality and
uprightness.
FRIENDSHIP OF TAMIL SCHOLARS
*In his youthful years he was attracted by the Tamil scholar
Pandithamani Ayothidhaasar who vehemently condemned the
caste - system and Hindu religion of Brahmins with the
principles of rationalism and Buddhism.
* There was a Tamil Scholar by name: Pulavar Marudhaiya
Pillai at Karur. His logical arguments and daring
condemnation of Hindu religion, caste-system, deceptive
myths in the epics and Vedic sasthras (Hindu Dogmas) spread
by the Brahmins, had attracted admiration of even the
ordinary rural people in the areas around Erode and Karur.
1905-06
His bosom - friendship played a major role in inculcating
atheism firmly in the mind of Periyar and in moulding the
latter as a probing rational thinker. Intimacy of another Tamil
Scholar Sage KAIVALYAM had also enriched the rational
intuition of Periyar. Many higher officials and learned
persons like Engineer P.V. Manicka Naicker befriended this
Erode Beacon, because of his kindling progressive views.
1909 * Unyielding to stiff protest of orthodox family
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 7

members, Periyar arranged the remarriage of his sister’s
daughter who became a child widow at the age of 9.
SACRIFICES FOR FREEDOM MOVEMENT
* He became the Chairman of Erode Municipality * Despite
his intense hatred towards the Hindu religion and its caste -
system - particularly the cruel ‘Untouchability’ exerted by the
Brahmins to supress the Dravidian race - the executive
efficiency and the unshakable honesty of E.V.R. fetched the
awards of many posts in various public institutions.
* Periyar was made Honorary Magistrate by the British
Government.
* He held many honorary positions like the President, the
Secretary, Vice-President etc., in various public institutions
1918
numbering 29 such as - District Board, Taluk Board, Urban
Bank, Religious Davasthanam (Trust), Public Library, War
Recruitment Committee, Association of Agriculturists,
Association of Merchants, Mahajana School Committee...
etc., * Many essential welfare schemes were implemented
effectively by him. Particularly the drinking water scheme
was skilfully executed. 1918 * While Periyar was the
Chairman of Erode Municipality, friendship blossomed
between himself and Mr. C. Rajagopalachariyar (Rajaji) who
later became Governor - General of India.
* Mr. P. Varadharajulu Naidu and Mr. C. Rajagopalachariyar
persuaded Periyar to join the National Congress party led by
Mr. M.K. Gandhi. Resigning the Chairmanship of Erode
Municipality, Periyar enrolled himself as member of that
Congress party. 1920 * He ardently participated in the Non-
Co-operation movement launched against the British rule by
‘Mahatma’ Gandhi. On the latter’s clarion call, Periyar
resigned all the 29 public positions held by him. He gave up
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 8

the family trade and closed the business concern which was
earning Rs. 20,000 annually (in those days) when the price of
a single gold sovereign was not even Rs. 10!.
* He defied the prohibitory order of section 144, promulgated
at Erode for the first time and courted arrest.
* Periyar trusted and accepted Mahatma Gandhi as his leader.
So, as a true disciple he began to execute every word of
Gandhi into deed. One such example is Khadhi yarn spun by
hand with Chakra. As soon as the command of Gandhi for
wearing Khadhi cloth was announced, Periyar immediately
shed away all his costly foreign clothes and began to wear
Khadhi. Also he forced all the members of his family,
including his mother, aged 80 years to wear Khadhi dress
only! * Forsaking pomp hitherto enjoyed, Periyar implicitly
enforced simplicity in every aspect of his life-journey.
UPHOLDER OF PROHIBITION POLICY 1921 * The
policy of Prohibition of Liquors was first conceived only at
the house of Periyar. When Gandhi came to Erode and stayed
at his residence, his wife Nagammal and his sister
Kannammal explained unbearable agony of the wives tortured
by their drunkard husbands and strongly stressed to draw a
policy on prohibition of liquors. They also pleaded to launch
an agitation in this regard.
1919
* Their worthy suggestion was accepted at once by Gandhi.
He announced that the Congress party men should undertake
picketing in front of toddy shops throughout the country for
urging the British Government to implement the policy of
liquor-prohibition.
* To accomplish the command of Gandhi for upholding the
policy of liquor - prohibition, Periyar had cut and uprooted
more than 500 coconut - trees in his vast groves, from which
toddy was procured. Such was his commitment to prohibition
1921 * At Erode, Periyar was leading the agitators and
picketed before the toddy - shop. He was arrested and
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 9

sentenced to undergo imprisonment for one month. 1922 *
His wife Nagammal and Sister Kannammal also bravely
jumped into the agitation and they led women volunteers for
picketing in front of liquor-shop.
* When some Congress front-line leaders requested
‘Mahatma’ Gandhi to stop that agitation, he seriously told
them that such a decision of stopping the agitation was not at
the hands of himself but of two women at Erode, implying the
wife and the sister of Periyar! PRESIDENT OF TAMIL
NADU CONGRESS * Then, Periyar became the President of
Tamil - Nadu Congress Committee.
* At the provincial conference of that party held at Tiruppur,
he moved a resolution which urged that all the
‘Untouchables’ of Dravidian race, should be allowed to enter
the temples for worship. But the Brahmins of the Congress
Committee obstructed the passing the resolution. Provoked by
their frenzy of caste - ‘Varuna Dharma’ Periyar declared that
he would burn ‘Manusmiruthi’, ‘Ramayana’, etc., because
these had been utilised by the wily Brahmins, as their
religious weapons to suppress the Dravidian race with evil
caste and superstition.
* The Government of Justice Party headed by Raja of Panagal
passed an Act in the Madras State Legislative Council to
create the Hindu Religious Endowment Board to end the
exploitation of the Brahmins in Hindu temples. Though he
was a Congress leader, Periyar supported that legislation
1923
brought by the Justice Party Government, due to his sincere
concern for securing social justice as well as the rights of
education, employment, economy, etc., to the Dravidian race
oppressed by the Hindu Aryans.
FIGHTER FOR SOCIAL JUSTICE
* Periyar appreciated the measures of the Justice Party
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 10

Government for implementing the policy of Communal
1924
Reservation in education and employment through
Government Order.
* To abolish the cruel system of ‘Untouchability’ sternly
observed by the Brahmins as a mode of oppressing the Adhi-
Dravidas (the lowest of the Hindu Castes) like slaves -
Periyar daringly led the agitation at VAIKOM town in Kerala
State defying the prohibitory law order.
* In the temple town of Vaikom, the low caste people
(Ezhavas) were not allowed to walk in the streets around the
temple. So that ‘Sathyagraha’ - agitation was started by local
Congress party people.
1924
* They requested Periyar to come from Tamil Nadu to take up
the leadership of Sathyagraha. He led the agitation. Hence, he
was arrested and sent to jail. In that case, he was sentenced
twice to undergo imprisonment for six months for each term.
The Sathyagraha went on for one year. Then the streets were
thrown open to the Untouchables.
* That courageous social sacrifice and fight for the human
rights, secured victory. The title of honour as ‘Hero of
Vaikom’ was conferred on Periyar.
* He was awarded jail sentence for his earlier propagation for
Khadhi cloth and for boycott of the foreign goods imported
by the British Rule. 1924 * Discrimination was shown by
V.V.S. Iyer, a Brahmin in charge of the National Training
School hostel called ‘Gurukulam’ at Cheranmaadhevi near
Thirunelveli, between the students of Brahmin caste and the
Non- Brahmin castes, although that hostel-attached institution
was funded by Tamil Nadu Congress Committee and also by
Dravidian philanthropists. V.V.S. Iyer’s caste-oriented
approach in favour of the Brahmin students segregating the
Dravidian students with caste-fanaticism, infuriated Periyar.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 11

Hence this Great humanist resigned the post of Secretary of
Tamil Nadu Congress Committee.
1924-Sep11
* However Periyar was then elected as the President of Tamil
Nadu Congress Committee. He presided over the provincial
conference of the Congress party held at Tiruvannamalai in
November - 1924.
* Since 1920, he had been moving a resolution in Congress
conferences demanding the Communal Reservation in
Government jobs and education for the Non-Brahmins
(Dravidians) to drive out their degradation and attain higher
positions in all spheres of life on par with the dominating
Brahmins. Similarly he proposed such a resolution at
Tiruvannamalai Congress Conference also. But it was
defeated by the Brahmins as they plotted at the Conferences
of Tirunelveli (1920), Thanjavur (1921), Tiruppur (1922) and
Salem (1923).
* Speaking at a public meeting at Salem, Periyar cautioned
that unless the right of communal representation for the Non-
Brahmins was attained during the British Rule itself, the
1924 Brahmin supremacy could not at all be ended and the
Dravidian race had to suffer under the tyranny of
‘BRAHMNOCRACY’ (The “Hindu” Centenary Special
Number: page 337). Thus he even coined that new word.
Periyar published a Tamil Weekly under the title “Kudi
Arasu” edited by himself to spread the principles of Self-
Respect for the awakening of the Dravidian race against the
oppression by the Brahmins with their cruel caste - system
and superstition of Hindu Religion.
* The first issue of ‘Kudi Arasu’ was released by the reputed
Tamil Religious Scholar and eloquent orator by name
Thiruppathiripuliyur - Gnaniyar Swamygal. 1925 - Nov.: *
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 12

Again at the Congress conference held at Kancheepuram
under the Chairmanship of the great versatile Tamil author,
editor, orator and labour leader Thiru. Vi. Kalyana
sundaranar, (Thiru. Vi. Ka.), the resolution was introduced
demanding Communal Reservation for 50% for the Non-
brahmins by Periyar .
* As usual, the cunning Brahmins stalled its passage. That
defeat enraged Periyar to such a brink of hatred as to quit the
Congress Party, the hierarchy of which was completely
captured and dominated by the Brahmins.
* While bidding farewell to the Congress, Periyar
1925 - May
thunderously vowed that his only future task was to destroy
2:
that Brahmin Raj in party by all means. On his leaving the
conference, a large group of front line leaders and volunteers
also followed him. FOUNDER OF SELF-RESPECT
MOVEMENT 1925 December * At the same town
Kancheepuram, Periyar organised shortly a parallel
conference of Non-Brahmins. In his address, Periyar declared
that the difference of racial identity between the Dravidians
and the Aryans (Brahmins) had always been existing from
very ancient times and its prevalence in the Congress Party
also could not at all be denied. Therefore, he stressed the
compelling need of the Dravidians to preserve the SELF-
RESPECT of their race, language, and culture which had
been degraded by the Brahminical dominance of their caste-
system and superstition of Hindu religion.
* Thus Periyar founded the SELF-RESPECT Movement in
1925 after his exit from the Congress Party. 1926 * He
participated in many Non-Brahmin Conferences held at
various places of Tamil Nadu and propagated the principles
of his SELF-RESPECT Movement to kindle the awakening
of the Dravidian race for freeing themselves from the slavery
enforced by Brahmins.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 13

* Periyar met the Congress leader M.K. Gandhi at Bangalore
and strongly argued that unless the poisonous caste-system
called ‘Varnashrama Dharma’ was uprooted, the eradication
of the ‘Untouchability’ stubbornly practised by the Brahmins
could not at all be made possible. He also emphatically told
Gandhi that before fighting for the freedom of India, three
threatening evils - viz., (1) The Congress Party (Under the
command of more Brahmin office - bearers), (2) Hindu
religion with its caste - system and (3) the Dominance of
Brahmins in the society should be put an end to first.
1927
* When the strike of the workers of the Railway workshop at
Nagappattinam broke out, Periyar, as the supporter of
labourers was arrested and sent to jail.
* With the active support of Periyar, Mr. S. MUTHAIYA
(Mudaliar), a Minister in the Dr. P. SUBBARAYAN’s
Independent Government, implemented the Communal
Reservation scheme of the Justice Party. 1928 * Periyar
published an English magazine under the title “Revolt” on 7-
11-1928.
* The first provincial conference of Self-Respect Movement
was organised by Periyar at Chengalpattu in February 1929.
Mr. W.P.A. Soundara Pandian, presided over that conference.
* He visited many European Countries like Egypt, Greek,
Turkey, Soviet Russia, Germany, England (Britain), Italy,
Spain, France, Portugal etc.,
* At Berlin, capital of Germany, Periyar visited several
1929
Socialist Associations and offices of Socialist magazines.
* In Russia (formerly Soviet Union) his stay was extended for
a lengthy period of three months because he was invited to
address many workers’ meetings. Being the First Nation of
Karl Marx’s Communism, established by the great leader Mr.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 14

Lenin, the former Soviet Union (Russia) captivated very
much the heart of Periyar.
June 20 * In England (Britain) Periyar addressed a huge
labourers’ public meeting with more than 50,000 people. He
1932 explained his principles on Rationalism as well as Socialism.
Nov. 11 * Returned to Erode after completing the European
journey via Colombo, Capital of Ceylon (Srilanka).
* In Erode at the residence of Periyar, a plan of Socialist
1932Dec 28- Programme drafted by the great thinker Comrade M.
29 Singaravelu was discussed by the followers of Self-Respect
Movement.
* Periyar addressed many meetings throughout Tamil Nadu,
1932
propagating the ‘Erode Plan of Socialism’.
* Mrs. E.V.R. Nagammal, the beloved wife of Periyar passed
away and the burial took place the very next day.
1933 May
* On 12-5-1933, he immediately left for Tiruchirappalli
11:
where he conducted an Inter-religious (Christian) Self-
Respect Marriage defying the section 144 promulgated in this
connection and got arrested.
* Periyar convened the conference of Self-Respect and
Nov. 26:
Socialism at Erode.
* Because of the repression by the British Rule, ‘Kudi Arasu’
1933 - Tamil Weekly was banned. Another magazine ‘Puratchi’
(Revolution) was published by Periyar.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 15

* Periyar and his sister Kannammal were arrested and
awarded imprisonment for an editorial in ‘Kudi Arasu’
1933 Dec -
weekly.
30:
* The reputed Socialist leader later known as ‘Lok Nayak’
Jaya Prakash Narayan met Periyar at his residence and
1934
requested him to join the Socialist Party (Founded by Jaya
Prakash).
* He brought out the Tamil weekly ‘Pagutharivu’
1934
(Rationalism) on 12-1-1934.
* Periyar began to extend his support to the Justice Party. It
started the Tamil weekly paper “Viduthalai” on 1-6-1935.
Then it was entrusted to Periyar who published ‘Viduthalai’
as Tamil Daily Newspaper from 1-1-1937.
1935
* From 13-1-1935 Periyar’s Reform of Alphabets in Tamil
language was adopted in all the papers and books published
by him.
* In the conference held at Kanchipuram he arranged a
1936
resolution to be passed to oppose Hindi imposition.
* Periyar published ‘Viduthalai’ as a Tamil Daily Newspaper
from 1-1-1937 undertaking its ownership.
1937 * Having become the Prime Minister of the former composite
Madras Province, Mr. C. Rajagopala Achariyar announced
that Hindi would be made a compulsory subject in school
curriculum.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 16

* At Truchirappalli, ‘Tamils Conferance’ was convened.
There Periyar declared that to defeat the dominance of Hindi
1937 Dec. 26
over Tamil and Dravidian race, the only solution would be ‘A
separate Souvereign State’ ie., ‘Tamil Nadu for Tamils’.
* In his book entitled as “The world to come” Periyar
visuvalised many scientific inventions including the
possibility of the “Test Tube Baby” which is now a reality!
* Periyar opposed the introduction of compulsory Hindi in
schools by Mr. C. Rajagopala Achariyar (Rajaji) as Prime
Minister of Madras Presidency who had earlier announced its
introduction on 25-2-1938 but he actually introduced it on 23-
4-1938.
Periyar began to picket in front of the Hindu Theological
School, Chennai from 4-6-1938 where Hindi was introduced
as compulsory. He courted arrest and was sentenced on 6-12-
1938 to undergo imprisonment for 2 years. He was lodged in
1938
the Govt. Central prison at Madras (now Chennai) and then
he was transferred to the Bellary Jail (Andhra).
* While launching that agitation Periyar announced that Mr.
C.N. ANNADURAI (Former Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu)
would be the First General in leading the picketing against
Hindi.
* On 29-12-1938 Periyar was elected President of the Justice
Party even when he was in Bellary Jail (Andhra).
* The title “Periyar” was conferred on him by Tamil Nadu
Women Conference held in Madras on 13-11-1938 under the
presidentship of NEELAMBIGAI AMMAIYAAR daughter
of MARAIMALAI ADIGAL, a veteran pure Tamil Scholar.
* He toured North India where he met Dr. B.R. Ambedkar
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 17

and Mohammed Ali Jinnah in Bombay. Mr. C.N.
ANNADURAI (affectionately called as ‘Anna’),
accompanied him.
1940 * When the Congress party Ministry of Mr. C. Rajagopala
Achariar resigned Periyar was invited by Mr. Arthur Hope
Governor of Madras to form alternative Ministry since he was
elected the leader of the Justice Party. But to concentrate fully
on Social Reformation only, he rejected that enviable political
offer.
* He raked up the issue of the demand for a separate Dravida
Nadu to save Dravidian race and Tamil language from the
1940
dominance of Hindi and North Indian Hindu Capitalists at
Thiruvarur Conference.
* On 27-8-1944 the name of the Justice Party was changed as
‘Dravidar Kazhagam’ to signify purely as a social
revolutionary movement for the emancipation of Dravidian
1944
race oppressed by Brahmins at the Provincial (special) Justice
Party conference held at Salem and also not to contest
elections and accept the titles given by British Govt.
* On 11-5-1946, the famous “Blackshirts Conference” was
held on the sands of the River Vaigai in Madurai when the
1946 conference pandal was set on fire by Brahmin - instigated
hooligans. Periyar and his followers were stranded for the
whole day.
* When the whole of India and the world were jubilant on the
attainment of Indian “Independence” on 15-8-1947, Periyar
boldly called it a ‘mourning’ day for Tamils with foresight.
He called Independence of India was nothing but a ‘made
1947 Aug -
over’ to Brahmins and North Indian Merchants (Baniyas)
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 18

15 from British because the demand for separate sovereign
nation to Dravidian Tamils was not fulfilled as done in the
case of Muslims’ demand for Pakistan.
* On 14-9-1947, the Dravida Nadu separation conference was
1947
held at a moffusil town, Cuddalore.
* The Blackshirts volunteer corps was banned by the
Congress Government. The 18th Dravidar Kazhagam’s State
Conference was held at Tuticorn on 8-5-1948 and 9-5-1948
under the presidentship of Periyar when many thousands of
Periyar’s followers assembled, irrespective of Caste and
Religion.
* Periyar and Mr. C.N. Annadurai (‘Anna’) participated in the
Anti-Hindi Volunteers Conference held under the leadership
1948 of Maraimalai Adigalar (the Champion for purity of Tamil) in
Chennai.
* On 30-1-1948 Mr. Mahathma Gandhi fell a victim to the
bullets of assassin Nathuram Godse, a Marathi Brahmin at
New Delhi at his prayer meeting. Periyar condemned the
assasination at all meetings held thereafter in Tamil Nadu. He
suggested that India be named as “Gandhi Nation (Nadu)”, a
new religion with rationalism may be created as “Gandhi
Religion” to mark his martyrdom.
1948 Aug - * The second Anti-Hindi Agitation started at Kumbakonam
10 on 10-8-1948 on the directive of Periyar.
* It was decided to show Black Flags to
Mr.C.Rajagopalachariar when he visited Madras on 23-8-
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 19

1948 Aug - 1948 as Governor General of India. Periyar organised a Black
22
flag demonstration and his followers were arrested and kept
in the central jail at Madras (Chennai) from 22-8-1948 to 27-
8-1948 and were released on 27-8-1948.
* Periyar’s marriage with Mani Ammai was held just to guard
his health as well as the Movement’s properties so that the
1949
Reformation movement would go on in future without
stagnation.
* He declared the Republic Day, 26-1-1950, as a Mourning
Day for Tamils to condemn the oppressive rule of North
Indian Capitalist Hindi fanatics.
* On 22-01-1950 Periyar was sentenced to undergo
imprisonment for the publication of his book ‘Ponmozhigal’
(Golden sayings).
1950
* The Communal G.O. (Government Order) which was very
dear to his heart was struck down as ultravires of the
Constitution of India by the Madras High Court which was
confirmed by the Supreme Court. Periyar roared like a lion,
toured the whole of Tamil Nadu and awoke the people to see
the danger ahead.
* Sensing the formidable opposition engineered by Periyar,
Constitution of India was amended for the first time by the
Nehru Govt. at the Centre. This was the first Amendment to
1951 the Indian Constitution. Ultimately sub clause (4), was added
to the Article 15 to admit of the provisions of Communal
G.O. to preserve the rights and equal opportunities of
Backward classes of India.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 20

* Periyar opposed the scheme of New Elementary education
1952 on the basis of the parents hereditary occupation, introduced
by the then Chief-Minister Mr. C. Rajagopalachari (Rajaji). *
Periyar and his followers erased with tar the Hindi-name-
Boards in all Railway stations all over Tamil Nadu.
* In order to condemn idolatary worship and to show to the
world that there was no divine power in idols, he organised a
campaign. His followers and himself broke the idol of
PILLAIYAR (Vinayaga) at public places.
* The intensity of Periyar’s opposition against the educational
reform-programme of Rajaji according to which all students
1953 should learn in schools their parents’ profession was so
formidable that made Mr. C. Rajagopala Achari (Rajaji) to
quit the post of Chief - Minisrer. The indignation of
Dravidian Race-Members of Legislative Assembly (M.L.A.s)
also added fire to his downful. (Rajaji) to quit the post of
Chief-Minister. Consequently Mr. K. Kamaraj came to power
as Chief-Minister of Tamil Nadu and he cancelled the much
opposed educational reform as advocated by Periyar.
* Periyar convened the Conference on Buddhism at Erode.
* Periyar along with his wife and some friends visited
Myanmar (Burma) and Malaysia. At Mandalay (Myanmar) he
attended the World Buddhist Conference where he met Mr.
Mallala Sekara, a Buddhist Scholar and Dr. B.R. Ambedkar.
He conversed with the latter for a long time and the subject of
1954
conversion to Buddhism came up for the discussion. He
strongly advised Dr. B.R. Ambedkar not to leave Hinduism;
because by his conversion to Buddhism he would forfeit his
right to criticise Hinduism and its untouchability. Periyar did
not prefer conversion so that he could sustain the right to
condemn the evils of Hindu religion.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 21

* Periyar undertook his second tour to Malaysia and
1954 Dec
propagated his rationalistic principles in many places.
* After returning to Tamil Naadu Periyar announced and
fixed a date to set fire to the Indian National Flag in protest
against the compulsory scheme of imposition of Hindi in
Tamil Nadu, much against the wishes of the people.
* Periyar was arrested for his public agitation of burning the
pictures of Rama - a Hindu deity at all public places, as a
symbolic protest against the Aryan domination and
degradation of the Dravidian leaders according to the
1955 Ramayana epic.
* The Trichi District Collector Mr. R.S. Malayappan a
sympathizer of the Untouchables was given wantonly
strictures in a judgement of the Madras High Court by two
Brahmin Judges. Periyar exposed this judgement since R.S.
Malayappan was an Offficer from a Backward community.
Periyar criticised the High Court judges for their hatred
towards the depressed class officers in a public meeting held
at Trichi Town Hall Square.
* The historic meeting between PERIYAR and VINOBA
1957 Jan -
BHAVE, the Founder-leader of ‘Land Donation Movement’
18
took place at Tiruchirappalli.
* For criticising the judgement of Madras High Court
delivered by two Brahmin Judges in the case of Trichi
District Collector Mr. R.S. Malayappan, Periyar was charged
with contempt of court and when the final hearing was heard
(Before the judges Justice P.V. Rajamannar and Justice A.S.
Panchapakesa Iyer) he made a statement in the High Court,
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 22

1957 April - explaining how Brahmins conducted themselves with racial
23
motive in several cases and opined that it was their inborn
natural ‘Dharma’ (Divine Duty) to annihilate uprising
Shudras and Panchamas of Dravidian Race.
* Probably this was then the first time that the judgement of
High Court Judges came to be criticised publicly for which
Periyar and his wife E.V.R. Maniammai were convicted.
* On 3-11-1957 at Thanjavur a big conference was held to
weigh Periyar against silver coins to commemorate his
birthday.
* On the same day a resolution was passed calling upon the
people of Tamil Nadu to come forward to burn the excerpt of
Articles in the Constitution of India on 26-11-1957 as a
protest against the inclusion of Article supporting casteism.
1957
Some 10,000 people burnt the excerpts of the Constitution of
India. Only about 3000 of them were arrested and sentenced
to undergo imprisonment from 6 months to 3 years Rigorous
Imprisonment. This agitation rocked the whole of Tamil Nadu
and that was the first time that such a big agitation against
casteism was started. Some 15 to 18 persons died in and out
of jail due to incarceration (A special act was passed to
convict them).
* Against the caste system, another big agitation was started
by Periyar. Brahmins used to inscribe the name in their Hotel-
Name-Boards as ‘Brahmin Hotel’ to spread the impression
that Brahmins were superior caste. Periyar requested all his
followers to erase the name ‘Brahmin’ in the Hotel Name
Boards. Accordingly a compaign was started to erase the
Brahmin-Name-Board in all Brahmin Hotels in Tamil Nadu.
As a result of this agitation, the name ‘Brahmin’ in the hotel-
name-boards disappeared.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 23

* Periyar was arrested as a case was foisted on him by the
1958
Govt. of Tamil Nadu that he exhorted his followers to
physically attack the Brahmins in his speeches delivered at
Pasupathipalayam (Karur), Kulitalai and Tiruchirapalli and
was sentenced to undergo imprisonment for 6 months by the
District Sessions Court at Tiruchirapalli.
* Periyar and Ram Manohar Lohia, the Socialist leader of
North India, met at Chennai and discussed their social and
political service to the people.
* He undertook a tour of North India addressing meetings at
Kanpur, Lucknow, New Delhi and other places. 1960 * He
burnt the map of India excluding Tamil Nadu, explaining that
the Central Government Raj (Rule) is a Brahmin Raj. * A
1959
protest day was observed by Periyar all over Tamil Nadu
against the Supreme Court judgement which had crippled the
operation of the Tamil Nadu Land Ceiling Act which was
rectified by Amendment to the Constitution.
* Mr. C.N. Annadurai became the Chief-Minister of Tamil
Nadu, his party (DMK) having secured the majority of seats
in the Tamil Nadu Assembly. He went to Tiruchirappalli and
sought Periyar’s greetings, goodwill and advice.
* Periyar decided to extend his support to the D.M.K.
Ministry. Mr. C.N. Annadurai declared in the State Assembly
that he dedicated his ‘Ministry’ to Periyar. He also enacted
the Self-Respect Marriage Act legalising all the marriages so
1967
far conducted on Self-Respect Marriage System devoid of
rituals.
* Mr. C.N. Annadurai, a lieutenant of Periyar, brought a
legislation renaming Madras State as Tamil Nadu State and
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 24

also introducing the two language formula (Tamil and
English) for Tamil Nadu, instead of the 3 language formula
prescribed by the Central Govt. then. These three
achievements are the mile stones of his ministry.
* As a true rationalist disciple of Periyar the Chief Minister
ANNA directed to throw away the pictures of all Hindu
1968
deities from the Govt. offices through a circular signed by the
then Brahmin Chief Secretary.
* Periyar observed a day for “Condemnation of the
exploitation of North Indian Business Magnates”.
* He was invited to address Minorities Conference at
1968 Lucknow (Capital of Utter Pradesh province).
* The Ramayana, Epic of Aryans, was burnt all over Tamil
Nadu as a mark of protest against cruel treatment of
Dravidians by the Aryans in the Ramayana.
* Chief Minister ANNA expired. Periyar plunged into
1969 Feb - 3 profound grief and expressed that the future of entire Tamil
Nadu had become darkened due to the demise of ANNA.
* Periyar announced a Programme of agitation to enter the
Sanctum Sanctorum of temples to eradicate the caste
1969 discrimination practised, according to which only Brahmins
could become Archakas (Priests) and perform worship
(poojas) in Sanskrit language only instead of Tamil.
* The Tamil Bi-monthly, the “Unmai” (Truth) was first
started at Tiruchirapalli by Periyar. First issue was released
by Dr. K. Veeramani, then General Secretary of Dravidar
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 25

Kazhagam.
* The UNESCO, an international branch organisation of the
United Nations, conferred on Periyar a glorious title, the
citation of which read as “Periyar the prophet of New Age,
Socrates of South East Asia, Father of the social Reform
Movement, and Arch enemy of ignorance, superstitions,
meaningless customs and baseless manners” - UNESCO 27-
6-1970. The award was presented by the Union Education
Minister Dr. Triguna Sen under the presidentship of Chief
Minister Kalaingar M. KarunaniDhi.
1970
* Periyar inagurated a new forum, called the Rationalist
Forum, a non-political social organisation, enlisting the
Government and private Employees and also others who
subscribe to the views of “Rationalism”.
* A legislation was passed in the Tamil Nadu Legislative
Assembly, enabling persons belonging to all castes to become
Archakas (Priests) in Temples. Periyar demanded such a
legislation, to abolish castes and to establish equality of
persons irrespective of caste at all places.
* Periyar inaugurated the English monthly, the “Modern
Rationalist”, the need for which was keenly felt by English
knowing Rationalists.
* Mumbai (formerly Bombay) Dravidar Kazhagam arranged
Birth-Day Celebrations for Periyar (September 17) and Anna
(Sep. 15). Accompanied by EVR Mani Ammai and General
1970 Nov-1: Secretary of Dravidar Kazhagam Mr. K. Veeramani, Thanthai
Periyar travelled in his van from Chennai and attended the
above two functions besides some more meetings in Mumbai
for three days from First November, 1970.
* After the 1971 Assembly election to Tamil Nadu, the new
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 26

D.M.K. Ministry was sworn in under the Chief Ministership
of Kalaignar M. Karunanidhi.
1971 Mar:
* Thanthai Periyar graced that grand function. After assuming
charge of Ministership, every Minister came before Periyar
and received his hearty greetings.
* At Erode, the home-town of Periyar, his statue was unveiled
by the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu Hon. Kalaignar M.
1971 Sep-17:
Karunanidhi. Revered Kundrakudi Adigalar Dheivasigamani
presided over that function.
* At Salem, a splendid function was held. A throne of silver
was presented to Periyar by the Public of Salem. 1972 Aug-
1971 Nov- 13: * At Cuddalore, the statue of Periyar was unveiled by the
11: Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, Hon. M. Karunanidhi. The
Chairman of the Legislative Council Mr. C.P. Chitrarasu
presided over the function.
* Periyar happily participated in his 95th Birth-Day
1973 Sep- Celebrations. The Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam
16,17: (A.D.M.K.) General Secretary M.G. Ramachandran offered
laurels and a purse to Periyar.
* A huge ‘Conference of Blackshirts’ was conducted at
Madurai City. The statue of Thanthai Periyar was unveiled by
1973 Sep-30: Tamil Nadu Minister Naavalar Dr. V.R. Nedunchezhian
under the Chairmanship of Minister Panruti S.
Ramachandran.
* As his last agitational social service, Periyar convened the
‘Conference for Eradication of Social Degradation’ with
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 27

extreme enthusiasm at Periyar Thidal, Chennai - 600 007.
1973 Dec. 8,
Many historic resolutions were then passed. On the 2nd day
9:
of that conference, Periyar made a clarion call to all
Tamilians to strive hard for the abolition of casteism and
social degradation imposed by Brahmins.
* At Thiyagaraya Nagar, Chennai - Periyar delivered his last
1973 Dec.
but immortal speech (the Swansong) like an ever memorable
19:
dying declaration.
* Due to unbearable acute pain of Hernia disease - Periyar
1973 Dec.
was admitted in the Government General Hospital in
20:
Chennai.
1973 Dec. * On his wish Periyar was taken to the Christian Medical
21: College (C.M.C.) Hospital at Vellore.
* The Greatest Original Thinker and the Resolute Rationalist
of the World, Periyar, breathed his last, putting billions of
rationalists, Tamilians of Dravidian race and admirers all over
1973 Dec.
the globe into unbearable agony with ocean of tears
24:
. * An official State mourning was announced by the Chief-
Minister Kalaingar M. Karunanidhi and Gazette extraordinary
was issued by the Govt. of Tamil Nadu.
* A state funeral with police honours was arranged at Madras.
His body was kept in the Rajaji Hall for the public to pay
their respects when dignitaries, his followers, friends, and a
host of others assembled in millions. The funeral procession
1973 Dec. started in the evening and reached the Periyar Thidal at
25: Vepery, Chennai - 600 007 where his body was laid to rest.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 28

Leaders like former Chief Minister Mr. K. Kamaraj and
Kalaignar Karunanidhi were by the side of the body till the
burial. A Govt. holiday was declared on 24-12-1973 by the
State Govt of Tamil Nadu.
After Periyar’s death Mrs. E.V.R. Maniammai headed this
1974 Jan 6 : Social Revolutionary Movement (Dravidar Kazhagam) and
lived upto 1978.
1978 March
Mrs. EVR Maniammal passed away.
16 :
Then Mr. K. Veeramani, who was nominated as General
Secretary by Periyar in 1960, continued as the Secretary
General of the movement and still he carries the torch.
* He has established numerous institutions as permanent
Memorials to the Greatest Universal Rationalist Thinker -
1978 March
PERIYAR E.V. RAMASAMY.
17 :
* As an ardent disciple of that revolutionary leader in
upholding his principles, Mr. K. Veeramani, the President of
Dravidar Kazhagam has founded‘PERIYAR CENTRE’ in
NEW DELHI, the capital of INDIA. 
- By POET DR. A. MARAIMALAIYAAN
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 29

Periyar, the Relentless Crusader
Dr. V.C. Kulandaiswamy
Former Vice-Chancellor, Anna University,  
Madurai Kamaraj University, Indira Gandhi National Open University
Periyar Erode Venkata Naicker Ramasamy was born on 17th September,
1879 at Erode, Tamil Nadu in a family with a background of affluence, deep
religious faith, strict adherence to established customs and high regard for
traditions. He was the second of four children, two sons and two daughters,
born to Thiru Venkata Naicker and Thirumathi Chinnaththayammai.
His formal schooling was brief; at six, he went to a private school where
he spent three years, and thereafter, joined the regular school-system, and
received instruction for another two years.  At the age of twelve, he was in
his father's shop, assisting him in his business.
In 1898, he married Nagammai who was then thirteen.  Two years later a
daughter was born to them;  the child died when it was five months old.
 They had no children thereafter.
The rigid discipline of the family, the strict observance of long established
customs, the routine adherence to numerous rituals and the implicit and
explicit pressure on him to conform to the way of life obtaining in the family
environment, drove him to a point of despair.  When he was twenty-five, he
fled home, and almost like a wandering Sanyasi, went North and reached
Benares, only to find that the holy city was in no way holier than any other.
 Many things that he experienced and witnessed there were to him repulsive
and revealing.  He left Benares and when he was back in Hyderabad, his
father succeeded in locating him and bringing him back.  He named the shop
‘E.V. Ramaswamy Naicker Mandy’, and entrusted the full responsibility to
him.  As the young E.V.R. was picking up business and shaping well, he
started taking interest in public affairs. He emerged gradually as a person of
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 30

importance in the town.  The prestige enjoyed by his father also helped him
in this regard.  His father died in 1911.  Public offices and positions of
respectability gravitated to him.  He became the chairman of the District
Devasthanam Committee; was an honorary magistrate for 12 years; was
elected chairman of the Erode Municipal Council between 1907 and 1919, he
held as many as twenty-nine offices of public importance.  Whatever position
he held, he fulfilled his responsibilities with utmost sincerity, dedication and
efficiency.
His nature inclined him to take interest in public affairs; his concern for
the common man and the society was genuine, deep and abiding.
 Consequently, he started deviating decisively from the prevailing
background of loyalty to the British Government of the day and respectable
behaviour in the eyes of the ruling class, and was taking increasing interest in
the policies and programmes of the Congress Party from 1907.  He attended
conferences; rendered help and even took a leading part in organising them:
 however, it was only in 1919 that he resigned his Chairmanship of the
Municipality, joined the Congress and entered active public life.  From then
on, till his demise in 1973, it was more than half a century of total dedication
to the service of the people, with few parallels in the political history of this
country.
While the objectives of his struggle and direction of his journey remained
substantially unchanged, a few milestones and turning points deserve
mention: the decision to resign public-office and join the Congress Party in
1919; the issues leading to his leaving the Congress in 1925; the founding of
the Self-Respect Movement in the same year;  his participation in, and
leadership of the Justice Party; the anti Hindi agitation in1938; the
establishment of Dravidar Kazhagam (DK) in 1944; his second marriage with
Maniammai in 1949;  the split of the D.K. consequent on his marriage and
the formation of the D.M.K. in 1949; and the D.M.K. capturing power in
Tamil Nadu in the 1967 elections are some of the developments that have had
far-reaching consequences. Each one of them meant for Periyar redefining
priorities; changing strategies; intensifying the struggle on one front and
easing it on another; withdrawing support for some and offering support to
some others; gaining new associates; parting company with old colleagues;
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 31

but always, with a view to achieving certain basic social goals to which he
adhered unrelentingly throughout his public-life.
When he joined the Congress in 1919, it was a significant change from a
life of affluence, comfort and social respectability to one of hardship, struggle
and suffering.  During the six years that he was an active member of the
Congress, he threw himself into the struggle with his usual dedication and
vigour.  He held offices in Tamil Nadu Congress as its President in 1923 and
1924, and as Secretary in 1925.  Whether it was Prohibition, Non-
Cooperation, or Promotion of Khadi, his involvement was complete and total.
 While many were content with preaching prohibition, he cut down 500
coconut trees used as toddy palms in his gardens;  propagation of Khadi to
him meant carrying heavy loads for sale in the villages, even to the extent of
impairing his shoulders:  half-hearted effort went against his grain and was
unknown to him.
Events and experiences however, made him believe that the Congress
leadership was not sufficiently determined to eradicate the caste system;  to
end caste-based privileges; to take effective steps to ensure social justice and
bring about equalisation of opportunities.   The attitude of Congress leaders,
including Mahathma Gandhi, to the Vaikom Agitation for temple entry which
Periyar led; the discrimination against non-Brahmin inmates at the
Cheranmadevi Gurukulam run with the support of the Congress; the non-
acceptance of the principle of communal representation for which he moved a
resolution in more than one annual conference of the Tamil Nadu Congress,
left him disappointed and disillusioned.  He sharpened his focus on
eradication of the caste-system, abolition of social inequalities and promotion
of equality of opportunities.  In order to be free to persue these goals, he left
the Congress in 1925.
Periyar's departure from the Congress and the formation of the Self
Respect Movement by him, marked a decisive and momentous step in his
life. His was from then on, a career of revolt, reform, iconoclasm and
incessant struggle.  Till the end, he was a crusader, uncompromising and
unrelenting.   His platform was one of social justice; equality of
opportunities; humanism and dignity of man.  It was a life that was never
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 32

dull, never routine, never one of rest and leisure; but was one of intense
activity, with a succession of struggles each resembling a storm or an
earthquake causing reverberations and receiving responses throughout the
length and breadth of Tamil Nadu.
He intensified his demand for communal representation  in education and
employment, a measure that he considered the Magna Carta for the weak and
the downtrodden; rallied the Non-Brahmins and organised the first provincial
conference to articulate their claims; on this issue, he made common cause
with the Justice Party, which formulated the communal G.O. in 1921,
reiterated it in 1922 and 1924, and it was implemented in tangible form on
the earnest efforts of Mr. S. MUTHAIYA MUDALIAR, a Minister in the
independent Government of Dr. P. SUBBARAYAN in 1928. Periyar was
also pleased with many other progressive measures ushered in by the Justice
Party, such as the establishment of a large number of primary schools in
villages, the denial of government grant to schools that practised
discrimination against Harijan students and the abolition of the institution of
Devadhasis or Temple Girls. He extended strong support to the 
Justice Party and was elected its President in 1938, even as he was in
prison.
During the period between 1925 and 1935, Periyar started a number of
Journals; Kudi Arasu in 1925;  Dravidan in 1927, Revolt in English in 1928;
Puratchi in 1933;  Pahuththarivu, as a weekly and daily in 1934 and
Pahuththarivu as a monthly in 1935, to carry his message to the people.  In
1937 he took over Viduthalai, a daily started by the Justice Party.
In the elections of 1937, the Congress won with an overwhelming
majority, and Rajaji became the head of the Government in the then Madras
Presidency.  The introduction of Hindi as a compulsory subject by Rajaji in
1938, and Periyar's historic agitation against the move, paved the way for
discussions and demands in terms of separation and the eventual emergence
of the Dravidian Movement.  What Periyar started as a fight against social
inequalities, casteism, and the dominance of Brahmins in education and
employment, gradually took a racial connotation and came to be viewed as a
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 33

North-South, and Aryan-Dravidian conflict.  In this context, Anna became a
major factor in shaping and formulating the policies of the Self Respect
Movement and the Justice party.  Anna interpreted many of Periyar's policies
and programmes against the background of historical facts and the literary
traditions of the Tamils.  These developments led to the founding of the
Dravidar Kazhagam in 1944.  This step meant an intensification of Periyar's
struggle against Brahminism: greater emphasis on the cultural, economic and
political interests of the South and a demand for self-determination.  Though
Periyar spoke on behalf of the Dravidian South, his following was essentially
confined to Tamil nadu. Economic and political issues figured prominently
on the D.K. platform in the Forties.  Periyar's remarriage with Maniammai,
and Anna's disapproval of the event, leading to a break with Periyar, brought
about the split of the D.K. and the birth of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam
(D.M.K.,) under the leadership of Anna.  Periyar again began to concentrate
on his fight against social evils, casteism, orthodoxy, superstition and the
imposition of Hindi.
Communal representation in education and employment was a principle
that Periyar held dear to his heart.  He believed that education and
equalisation of opportunities were the only two weapons to fight the
humiliating and cruel inequities perpetrated over millennia and sought to be
continued further.  He rose in anger and fury, and organised a state-wide
agitation when the communal G.O. of the then Madras State, for which he
had pleaded and fought ceaselessly since 1921, and which was in operation
from 1929, was struck down by the Madras High Court in 1950 as Ultra-vires
the Constitution of India, and the judgement was upheld by the Supreme
Court.  The widespread resentment in the Southern States, Periyar's
leadership in rallying the forces for social justice, and Kamaraj's support for
the protection of the weaker sections brought about the first amendment to
the Indian Constitution in 1951, and the  inclusion of the following clause:
Article (15) (4):  Nothing in this article or in clause (2)  of Article 29 shall
prevent the State from making any special provision for the advancement of
any socially and educationally backward classes of citizens or for the
Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes. 
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 34

During the period 1952-54, Rajaji, who was the Chief Minister of Madras
State, introduced an educational reform by which school children would
spend half the day in the school and devote the remaining half for occupying
themselves in productive work being done by their parentage. Periyar
opposed it as an attempt at perpetuating caste-based occupation. The scheme
met with wide-spread opposition and was withdrawn when Rajaji resigned
his office in 1954.
Periyar kept alive his opposition to Hindi and carried on a campaign of
erasing Hindi letters from the name-boards of railway stations in 1952, 1953
and 1954. He organised a move, in 1953, to break the idols of Ganesha in
important towns of Tamil Nadu.  However, after Kamaraj became the Chief
Minister of Tamil Nadu, he tended to support the Congress Government,
headed by him, as he believed that the interests of Dravidians were safe in his
hands.  He extended wholehearted support to Kamaraj and his Government.
 A major struggle he threatened to launch during his regime was the one to
burn the national flag to protest against moves on the part of the Government
of India to impose Hindi; however, he suspended the agitation in deference to
an assurance from Kamaraj that Hindi would not be a compulsory subject.  In
1957, he organised an agitation to burn certain sections of the Constitution of
India, declaring that the document was a tool to preserve and perpetuate the
caste system and the caste-based inequities and privileges.  A few thousands
of his followers who took part, underwent prison terms ranging from a few
months to years.
In all his agitations and struggles, he consistently eschewed violence.  He
denounced in unequivocal language attempts at damaging property during
protest marches and agitations.  He was essentially for respecting the law and
viewed with great disfavour any attempt at disturbing the normal life of the
community.  He was for the observance of a code of conduct and the
adherence to certain norms even in organising agitations and protests.
 However, speeches made by him in 1957, at Kulithalai and
Pasupathipalayam, were found inflammatory and capable of inciting people
to communal violence, and Periyar underwent a prison term for six months in
1957-58.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 35

The triumph of the D.M.K. in the 1967 elections, and the formation of
Government by Anna, was to Periyar a defeat in a narrow sense, since he
strongly supported Kamaraj and the Congress party in the elections.
However, Anna in an unexpected, but under-standable move, called on
Periyar and announced the dedication  of his Government to him and all that
he stood for by way of social reform, social justice and respect for human
personality.  The resounding victory for the D.M.K. was unique in the history
of democracy inasmuch as a radical reformer like Periyar, who denied God,
condemned religion, and went against popular faith, found himself accepted
and acclaimed by the masses and the Government in power in his own life
time.  The period after 1967 was full of honours, recognition and mass
expression of thankfulness.  For his part, he continued to be active, carrying
his message through numerous meetings and periodic writings, and
registering his protests through agitations.  Periyar breathed  his last at the
Christian Medical College Hospital, Vellore, on 24-12-1973 and was buried
at Periyar Thidal with state honours.
Periyar remained a fighter all through his life and fought his battles on
many fronts.  Though his formal education was modest, the opportunities he
had, to listen to learned discourses with which his parents were associated,
his own reading in latter years and his travels abroad and within the country
gave him breadth of knowledge and depth of insight.  Periyar had the benefit
of visiting foreign countries both in the East and in the West.  During 1929-
30, he toured in Singapore and Malaya; in 1931 he spent eleven months in
Europe visiting among other countries Germany, the U.S.S.R., France and
England.  In 1954, he went to Burma to attend the 2500th anniversary
celebration of the Buddha.
The streak of rationalism was evident in him from his youth.  The
following observation by Periyar is significant:
“I have not believed in caste, or practised any religion since my youth.  I
might have put up appearances of conformity where obligatory.   Similarly, I
have had neither fear for, nor faith in, God.  I would not have desisted from
doing something I wanted to do, fearing God's anger or divine punishment;
similarly I would not have done anything against my will to please or receive
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 36

favours from God.”
Periyar was not an intellectual of any higher study, postulating and
enunciating theories about the heaven and earth, but an active field worker
who carried his message to the people, and delivered it in a language that was
understood by the illiterate millions, and through methods that were
appropriate to them.  The apparent crudeness of some of his techniques in the
eyes of the elite, is to be viewed against this background.  To prove to the
masses that the idols of gods were nothing more than the stone or bronze they
are made of, he broke the idols of Ganesha, burnt pictures of Rama and
denigrated the objects of worship.  He exposed claims of superhuman
powers, ridiculed the Puranic (Mythological) stories, and carried the torch of
knowledge, enquiry and logic to the humblest of villages and the lowliest of
citizens. Awakening the common man, encouraging and motivating him to
think on his own, and removing the shackles and chains on his mind,
continued to be his main mission till the very end.
Periyar believed that education enfranchise, and that the key to human
liberation from intellectual, economic, social and political bondage was to be
found in education.  Equalisation of opportunities for education continued to
be the corner-stone of his struggle from the beginning.  The single most
important issue on which he left the Congress was the principle of Communal
Representation in education and employment.  In his long public life, he
might have made adjustments;  shown accommodation and reconciled with
differences in policies here and there for the sake of certain larger interests;
but he never made any compromise on Communal Representation; never
supported any party, never allied with any leader who did not subscribe to
this principle. He  was convinced that there was no such thing as liberation
for the ignorant: to them, freedom from one bondage would only mean
submission  to another.  The ignorant would only change their masters and
not shed them.  In the history of the resurgence of India in the twentieth
century.  Periyar would come to be acknowledged as the pioneer and
architect of the broad measures for equalisation of opportunities in education
and employment.  
Periyar considered the caste system the cancer of the Indian society.  To
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 37

him, nothing was more important than putting an end to this abomination.  He
waged a relentless war against the caste system,  especially against the
practice of untouchability, and all its manifestations in the society.  Temple-
entry, abolition of caste-based discrimination in hotels and restaurants, inter-
caste marriage, priesthood on the basis of  preparation and not by birth, and
the use of the language of the  people for worship, instead of Sanskrit, were
some of the positive measures for which he pleaded and fought throughout
his life.
Periyar was a humanist:  he had no particular emotional attachment to any
language or race, no faith in any religion, no preference for any caste no
unquestioning commitment to any political philosophy.  He judged and
evaluated everything on the basis of its usefulness, functional efficiency and
equity.  In a rational humanist like him, what appears to be the consistent
hostility towards the Brahmins might seem somewhat irreconcilable.  Periyar
was convinced somehow, beyond doubt, that casteism was identical with
Hinduism and Hinduism to him meant Brahminism and supremacy of the
Brahmins.  Consequently, his fervour for a casteless society, and his crusade
against the caste system and its pervasive influence, made him denounce
Hinduism as the source of this evil and Brahmins as the early authors and
subtle perpetrators of this cancerous stratification.
Periyar sincerely believed that the Hindu mythologies, Puranas, stories
about gods divine personages and devils, and the practices obtaining in Hindu
temples, were clever innovations and strategies to integrate faith in God with
acceptance of the caste system and a Brahmin-dominated culture.  He came
down heavily therefore on the Hindu Gods, mythologies, and rituals.  He saw
them all as an outrage on human dignity and an unpardonable crime on
humanity perpetrated over 3000 years and sought to be preserved in the name
of rituals, tradition, culture and religion.  He observed almost no restraint in
demonstrating his contempt and expressing his anger.  His mood was one of
smashing the obsolete order, melting the ruins and pouring them into a new
mould to forge a new order, a new society founded on reason, equity and
dignity of humanity.
It may be said in general that he was the willing and self-appointed
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 38

champion of the causes of all those who were under-privileged.  His struggle
for the cause of women has perhaps few parallels in the history of women's
liberation in India.  Child marriage, widowhood, dowry, the male-
domination, the myths and Puranas that weave stories extolling servility in
women as virtue, were ridiculed, condemned and exposed by him day in and
day out, in public meetings, marriage ceremonies, political platforms and
writings.  He saw clearly that the continuous occupation of women in bearing
and bringing up children was the main cause of their confinement to the
home and their complete dependence on men.  He saw contraception as the
most effective tool of women's liberation and was the earliest to advocate
family-planning.  He introduced the concept of ‘Self-respect Marriage’,
which stressed the equality of sexes, looked at family life as one of
partnership and discarded all rituals that implied subordination of women to
men.  In the Self Respect Movement, women played a prominent role.  In the
resolutions adopted in the conferences organised by him, those concerning
the rights and privileges of women were given pride of place.  He advocated,
with feeling and forcefulness, widow remarriage.  When his own niece
became a widow in her youth, Periyar set an example by arranging for her
remarriage, defying all his orthodox relatives.  At the Self Respect
Conferences in 1929 and 1930, women's right to divorce and to have property
was emphasised.  It is but appropriate that the title of Periyar, though in
occasional use earlier, was officially conferred on him only at a women's
conference held in Madras, in November 1938.
His interest in politics per se was really secondary.  His main concern was
social reform.  Politics is the game of those who, among other things, aspire
for power, Periyar was unwaveringly against fighting elections and capturing
power.  Since he resigned his Chairmanship of the Erode Municipality in
1919, till his death in 1973, he had stoutly refused to seek or accept power.
 In 1940, and in 1942, he was twice asked to take up the Chief Ministership
of the Madras Presidency.  He declined, saying that acceptance of office
would be an impediment to his struggle for reform.
After he left the Congress, political interest in him revived only when he
opposed Hindi and led the agitation against it. Periyar had grave reservations
about the Indian languages in general as media of modern knowledge.  The
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 39

absence of literature in Science and Technology and the abundance of
Puranas and myths in Indian languages have been Periyar's great concern.  He
was sceptical about the efficacy of any Indian language as a modern tool and
therefore unambiguously and strongly advocated the use and study of
English.  He opposed Hindi-speaking people, and Hindi as a language is even
less developed than other Indian languages.
He bestowed his thought on the development of Tamil to meet the needs
of the era of Science and Technology, and suggested script reform as one of
the measures.  He himself introduced some changes in 1934.  These were
officially accepted by the Government of Tamil Nadu in 1979, and the reform
since then has become regularised.   He was indifferent to , or critical of,
many of the literary works in Tamil, but he was a pioneer in projecting the
Kural to the public at large as a work depicting more closely the way of life
of the Tamils.
He feared the domination of the North over the South in an independent
India, and therefore advocated a separate political identity for Tamil Nadu
though he used the term Dravidasthan.  However, his political interest took a
secondary place, and he concentrated on his struggle for social reform and
social justice though he kept up his relentless fight against Hindi.
The D.M.K. under Anna, gave precedence to political issues over policies
of social reform and the split of the D.K. resulted in one concentrating on the
social front and the other on essentially political issues.  When the D.M.K.
gave up the separation-demand, following the Chinese invasion, the emphasis
came to be on autonomy for the States and on the Federal concept.  In
general, the effort of the Dravidian Movement has been, and even to-day is,
to claim for the Tamil language and culture, which are as ancient as, or even
more ancient than Sanskrit, a recognition and an identity commensurate with
their past.
Periyar courted imprisonment more than ten times; three times in 1922;
and in 1924, when he was in the Congress.  Later he underwent prison-terms,
or was arrested and imprisoned in 1922; 1938, 1948, 1949, 1950, 1957 and
1960.  Agitation against Hindi, temple entry, resistance to discrimination on
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 40

the basis of caste in hotels and restaurants, protest against certain provisions
in the Constitution and attempt at burning the Constitution or the National
Flag were among the main battles that put him behind bars on most of the
occasions.
Periyar was a rationalist with a difference.  He was all the time a field-
worker.  His audience ranged from intellectuals, to illiterate masses from the
slums and remote villages.  He took examples from their 
day-to-day practices, dealt with them in detail, explained himself in a
language intelligible to them, and exposed the patent follies in their faiths,
beliefs and practices.  He was not interested in the philosophical niceties of
the many Hindu concepts.  These were merely of theoretical interest and were
confined to academics, intellectuals, and a limited number of persons in the
upper strata of society.  His concern was in what is believed and observed by
the people in their day-to-day life.  Religion in the Hindu society is one of
rituals, ceremonies and observances.  He wanted to bring about a change in
 them .  His objective and ambition were essentially one of modernising the
society and bringing it in tune with  the ideals and values relevant to the
times.
Periyar kept an open mind and was refreshingly resilient in accepting and
absorbing changes. While he was alert and responsive to new developments,
he did  not rely on any authority ancient or modern for his views.  The
opinions expressed and the measures advocated by him were essentially the
results of his own experience, observation and contemplation.  He judged
every issue using simple criteria.  His approach to and analysis of any issue,
can be summarised in the following questions:  
* Is it fair and just to all concerned?
* Does it stand to reason?
* Is it in tune with natural inclinations of men and women?
If it is not, is it necessary to adopt it or follow it for human welfare and
progress on a long-term basis?
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 41

* Will it promote human endeavour?
* Will it contribute to human progress?
When an issue failed his tests, he never once wavered in his grim
determination to oppose it.  He stood steadfastly by the following
announcement he made through ‘Kudi Arasu’ - Tamil Weekly in 1925:
Feelings of self-respect and brotherhood must blossom in the society;
 inequalities and thoughts of one being high and  other low in birth must be
eliminated.  Caste feuds and conflicts must disappear.  We shall strive hard to
propagate these views.  WE SHALL FEARLESSLY AND WITHOUT
DISCRIMINATING BETWEEN FRIENDS AND FOES CONDEMN
EVERYONE WHO MIGHT OPPOSE AND ATTACK US IN THIS
REGARD.
In general, he took it on his  shoulders to fight against every form of
oppression, every form of exploitation, every practice that hurts human
dignity, every belief that inhibits human effort and human endeavour.  FOR
ONE LIKE HIM WHOSE PHILOSOPHY IS BROAD HUMANISM,
AND WHOSE OBJECTIVES ARE HUMAN WELFARE AND HUMAN
PROGRESS, THE QUESTION OF HATING ANY COMMUNITY
REALLY DOES NOT ARISE.  He opposed the Brahmins when he felt that
they have been oppressing the Non-Brahmin community.  He opposed and
condemned the male members of the Brahmin and non-Brahmin communities
alike, when he saw the injustice they were doing to the women-folk in
general.  He criticised bitterly the Non-Brahmin caste-Hindus when he found
them ill-treating and humilitating the members of the scheduled caste.  In
general, he was always on the side of the weaker sections  of the community.
 He pleaded and fought for their cause, without being approached or asked.
In his long public-life, he opposed many leaders and political parties and
supported many individuals and institutions. On a later date, he supported
those that he once opposed and also opposed those that he once supported.
 His critics and detractors see inconsistency or opportunism in the stands
taken by Periyar.  He was never inconsistent; his goals were clear in his
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 42

mind; he worked towards them with a single-minded devotion. He welcomed
support for his struggle from wherever it came; whenever he found that an
individual leader or a party would help his cause, he also lent support.  For
example, Communal Representation was dear to his heart and he never
supported , nor ever spared any leader or party that went against the principle
of communal representation.  Similarly, he believed that a reform movement
should not aspire for power and fight elections.  On more than one occasion,
the highest of the offices available at that time in the State was offered to
him.  He consistently turned down such offers and kept his followers away
from fighting elections.  Inconsistency, if any, was superficial.  There was an
underlying current of purposiveness in his strategy, a direction in his journey
and they were in harmony with his objectives.
He had in him in full measure the essential traits of great men.  He
allowed no gap between what he preached and practised.  It was not merely
his writings and speeches that conveyed his message; his own life and work
unmistakably radiated his convictions.  One can never find even a trace of
hypocrisy in him;  duplicity in word and deed was with him an unknown
phenomenon. His was a life as transparent as crystal glass:  there was nothing
to hide, nothing to withhold.
The cornerstone of his virtue was his simple living.  His ambitions were
high;  but his wants were modest;  he kept them to the  barest minimum.  He
was free from addiction of any kind.  He dressed in the simplest piece of
cotton material;  ate whatever was served:  slept anywhere when he needed
rest.  Perhaps no saint, no ascetic would have reduced his needs of comfort to
such an irreducible minimum as Periyar did.  While he had no great
admiration for a life of asceticism, and never supported renunciation, his was
a life of asceticism and renunciation, excepting that  he did not choose to
starve or sleep on a bed of thorns.
Periyar identified himself indistinguishably with the masses.  His time,
effort and thought were totally devoted to the task of bringing about an
awakening among them, to set them thinking.  In the 93rd year of his life, he
travelled for 183 days and delivered 249 speeches; in the 94th year, he toured
for 177 days and delivered 229 speeches.  A life so active physically and
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 43

mentally in so advanced an age is truly rare in human history.
After 50 years of tireless striving, hard struggle and massive educational
efforts through speeches, writings and demonstrations, he left behind him a
society vastly different from the one he inherited - more alert, more
questioning, less gullible, better educated, more modern and in general closer
to the take off point for a state of living that would be richer in all respects. 
*~*~*
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 44

Brief Bio-Data of  Prof. V.C. Kulandai Swamy
Prof. V.C. Kulandai Swamy obtained M. Tech., from I.I.T., Kharagpur
and Ph.D., in Hydrology and Water Resources, from the University of
Illinois, U.S.A. Starting his career as a teacher and researcher, he was
Assistant Professor, Professor and Dean of Post Graduate Studies in the
College of Engineering (now Anna University), Madras: has made
outstanding contributions in Hydrology. A general equation derived by him
and a model based on it for Rainfall Runoff studies is known as
‘Kulandaiswamy Model’ and is quoted widely in Hydrologic literature. He
was a Member of the UNESCO Planning Group (1978) for the preparation of
the Second Six Year Plan (1981-86) of the International Hydrological
Programme (IHP) and UNESCO Adviser/Expert (1979-81) in Hydraulics and
Hydrology. He has authored over sixty research reports and papers in the
field of Hydrology and Education.
Later, he moved to Educational Planning, Development and
Administration; was successively Director of Technical Education; VIce-
Chancellor, Madurai Kamaraj University (1978-79); Vice-Chancellor, Anna
University, Madras for three successive terms (1981-90), and VIce-
Chancellor, Indira Gandhi National Open University, New Delhi (1990-94).
Currently he is the Chairman (Honorary) of the Tamil Virtual University
Society.
He has been a member/chairman of a number of academic bodies,
working groups and expert committees at the national and international levels
in Hydrology, Technical Education, General Education and Distance
Education. Mention may be made of a few: Member, University Grants
Commission (UGC) India for two terms; All India Council for Technical
Education (AICTE) and Joint Council for Vocational Education; Vice-
President of the International Council for Distance Education (ICDE) for
Asia; President of the Association of India Universities (AIU); President of
the Association of Commonwealth Universities (ACU), London for a brief
period; President of the Indian Society for Technical Education, New Delhi
for two terms.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 45

He is currently, among others, VIce Chairman, Institute of Asian Studies,
Chennai; Chairman, Tamil Academy, Chennai; and Vice-Chairman,
International Association for Tamil Research with registered Head Quarters
at PARIS.
He is a Fellow of the Institution of Engineers (India); Indian National
Academy of Engineering; Indian Academy of Sciences and Computer
Society of India.
He has long been interested in modernising Tamil to serve as a medium
for Science and Technology. His consistent advocacy of Script Reform in
Tamil for easy learning deserves particular mention; he was made the
Chairman of a Committee constituted by the Government of Tamil Nadu for
Script Reform.
He is a recipient of many distinctions and awards: Honrary D.Litt / D.Sc.,
from seven Universities i.e., D.Litt., (Honoris Causa), University of Jaffna,
Sri Lanka for his literary contributions, 1980; D.Sc., (Honoris Causa),
Alagappa University, Karaikkudi, Tamil Nadu, 1997; D.Litt., (Honoris
Causa), Pondicherry University, 1997; Ph.D., (Honoris Causa), Jawaharlal
Nehru Technical University, Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh, 1999; D.Litt.,
(Honoris Causa), Indira Gandhi National Open University, New Delhi, 2000;
D.Litt., (Honoris Causa), Karnataka State Open University, Mysore, 2002;
and D.Litt., (Honoris Causa) Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Open University,
Hyderabad, 2002; Indira Gandhi National Integration Award (1988) and the
Central Board of Irrigation and Power Diamond Jubilee Award (1991). The
institution of Engineers (India) conferred on him the recognition of one of the
eminent “Engineering Personalities of India” (1991). The University Grants
Commission (UGC) conferred on him Pranavananda Award for 1990 for
Education.
Besides being an educationist and technologist, he is a writer of standing
in Tamil and was the recipient of the national honour of Sahitya Akademi
Award for the year 1988. The Government of Tamil Nadu chose him for the
prestigious Thiruvalluvar Award for 1998 which carries a citation, a
medallion and a cash award of Rs. one lakh in recognition of his contribution
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 46

to Tamil literature.
The Commonwealth of Learning, Vancouver, Canada honoured him
during its Decennium Celebration and ‘Pan Commonwealth Forum on Open
Learning’ (1-5, March 1999) at Brunei by making him an ‘Honorary Fellow
of the Commonwealth of Learning’ in recognition of his outstanding
contributions to distance education and open learning in India and in the
Commonwealth countries.
He was conferred the national honour of PADMASHRI (1992) by the
President of India for his contributions to ‘Science and Education’ and
PADMA BHUSHAN (2002) for his contributions to ‘Engineering and
Science’. He was conferred the DISTINGUISHED ALUMNUS AWARD
(2003) by I.I.T. Kharagpur.
 *~*~*
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 47

GENESIS OFSELF-RESPECT MOVEMENT
I started a movement and named it as the ‘Self-Respect Movement’ in
1925. It is known to all. I am bound to state why it was started. Many may
like to know the objectives of the movement. At the outset, I must say a few
words about myself. Then only it will be possible to conclude whether what I
did was right or wrong.
I had no feelings about caste or religion from my childhood days. In other
words I did not follow them. But when circumstances forced me I pretended
to observe them. Similarly I had no faith in God. In all matters I did, I never
thought whether God would punish me! I did not do anything thinking that it
would please God. In my early years, I had no remembrance I have ever
believed in god or religion or caste really! I have to reminiscence about this
many times in the past also. I do not know as to when I really lost faith in all
these.
CASTE-FANATICISM EVEN IN DRINKING WATER
When I was just six years old, I was sent to a pial school. It was just at a
short distance from my home in Erode. Around the school there were few
houses inhabited by Chettiars, trading in oil. Oil mills were working always.
A few people residing on platforms were manufacturing mats and baskets out
of bamboo. Some Muslims too were residing in that area. It was clear that
Chettiars, bamboo article makers and Muslims were dwelling in that area.
In those days, other caste people would not take any food in their houses.
So before sending me to school I was advised not to move with these people.
I was strictly warned not to eat or drink in their houses. If at all I felt thirsty, I
was asked to take water from the teacher’s house. The teacher was a strict
vegetarian. He belonged to a caste called ‘Odhuvar’. In his house a small girl
used to place a brass tumbler on the ground, and pour water into it. I was
instructed to lift the vessel and drink without sipping. After drinking I was
asked to keep the vessel upside down. After that she would pour water on the
vessel, lift it and then take it into the house. That was the normal practice
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 48

adopted in those days by high-caste Hindus to `purify’ the vessel touched by
a person belonging to a low-caste.
Because I was not allowed to sip water from the vessel, a part of the water
would fall on my body. Only a little water would go into the mouth. Some
times water would enter my nose and cause trouble. I had to spit out water
instantly. Sometimes the girl would get angry on seeing this. So I decided not
to take water from the house of the teacher.
The boys of Vania Chettiar community never went to the teacher’s house
for drinking water. They will stand in the class, show their thumbs and the
teacher would let them go out and return soon. They would take water from
the Chettiars’ houses nearby.
One day I thought that I could join them and take water in a Chettiar’s
house. When a Chettiar boy showed his thumb I also stood up and showed
my thumb. The teacher permitted both of us to leave the class. The teacher
asked me where I was running to. “For drinking water” I replied. “Are you
going with him?” asked my Master. So I went to the teacher’s house. When I
returned, my body was wet. My dhotis too were partly drenched in water.
Next day I decided to accompany a Chettiar boy for drinking water. I made
the necessary arrangement previously. I stood up in the class first and showed
my pointing finger as though I am going out to pass urine. The teacher
nodded his head. I went out and stood behind the house of the teacher. The
Chettiar boy took the permission from the teacher to quench his thirst. He
came out. We both joined together and ran up to his house. He brought me a
glass of water.
PUNISHMENT FOR MOVING WITH LOW CASTES
I drank that water by sipping, as I would do in my house. Seeing this the
lady of the house asked me whether I would not be punished for drinking
water in her house. I said no one in my house would take me to task. She
asked my friend Palaniappan to wash the glass I used. Then I ran back to the
school.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 49

On another occasion I drank the water in the house of a person who made
bamboo articles. Gradually I began to taste the dishes prepared in their
houses. Somehow this matter reached my house. At that time my family was
very rich. Our people were observing the rituals like orthodox Brahmins.
Always there was talk of divinity in my house. But my father was not much
worried. He simply chided me saying ‘ Don’t behave like that again.’ But my
mother was very much perturbed. She would feel as though she had lost
something precious. But nothing stood in my way. I even ate whatever the
Muslim boys offered me. My parents came to know about this also. By this
time my school career was stopped. I was then only ten years old.
I was very closely associated with those with whom I should not. I was
not expected to move freely. My close movement with communities, which
were considered low and despicable, was the main impediment to my
education. I was considered to be a ruffian because of my movements and
behaviour. My feet were chained to logs of wood. Yet I used to move about
with my usual company. This continued for fifteen days!. I used to carry the
logs on my shoulder and go about on my usual rounds. At last I was taken
away from that school and sent to a government school. Even there I was
stopped in two years. I was only 12 years at that time.
RATIONAL QUESTIONS TO RELIGIOUS PREACHERS
I was sent to our own business shop. My work was to mark the bags and
auction the goods. During my leisure time, I took keen interest in discussing
the puranas (mythologies). In those days Sanyasis (Saints), Bhagavathars,
religious mendicants had great sway over our family. I disliked them. I used
to heckle them and make fun of what they said. I used to pester them with
questions and make them feel embarassed. Gradually this practice led to my
taking interest in chatting. This also helped me to spend my leisure time
usefully. In fact this practice gave me lively interest.
Moreover the religious pundits (scholars) of Vaishnavism and Saivism
were performing ‘Kalatshepams’ (Story Discourse with songs) in our house.
This was done to gain a status and name in the society, as my family was
rolling in money. My mother used to hear the religious discourses with
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 50

devotion. My father was simply pleased with all these. So far as I was
concerned, I naturally, learnt all about the Hindu religion and its puranas. I
used to put a volley of questions to the pundits. For some, they struggled to
answer. Different pundits gave different clarifications. This made me more
enthusiastic and incisive. Neighbours were struck with my intelligence.
Though sometimes my father felt annoyed, in his heart of hearts, he
appreciated my brilliance.
Out of all these I began to lose faith in castes, religions, God and Sastras
(Hindu Doctrines).
NOT A VICTIM TO LIQUORS
It is said that one’s association and surrounding, give scope to the
individual to determine one’s life, mission and ideals. By experience it may
be true. But in no field of activity I was influenced by association or
surrounding. On the contrary I was never a victim of my surrounding and
association . Let me explain this further. When I was in my youth I was
surrounded by friends who were mostly accustomed to drink. This was
during the period when I was 20 to 30 years of age. Further the government
officers, Zamindars and Mirasdars who were very affectionate also had the
habit of consuming liquor. Many nights I used to enjoy their Company and
take leave of them in the morning. Every night I used to spend Rs.40, 50,60
on liquor like brandy. I would myself mix the liquor with soda in glasses and
offer them as a mark of respect. When they got intoxicated some of them
used to spit the liquor on me. On one occasion, a deputy collector and a salt
commissioner pushed me to the ground and forcibly tried to pour liquor into
my mouth. I say this to prove that association or surrounding had no power to
influence me, I never had the interest to taste any liquor. Yet my wife used to
suspect me because of my association and surroundings. She would ask me to
open my mouth and try to smell whether I had consumed any liquor. Then
only she would be satisfied.
Inspite of my being associated with this sort of society, I was very
successful in my business. My father reposed great confidence in me. He
removed the name board of the shop bearing his name and replaced it with
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 51

my name. Even in public matters he deputed me to represent him.
The works of temples and devasthanams were conducted as if they were
purely personal affairs In this aspect also my father made me prominent. By
doing this, he expected a change in my life. He might have thought that I
would become religious and have faith in god.
I acted as the secretary and president of the DevasthanaCommittee.
ERADICATING EVILS OF CASTE AND RELIGION
While the matters were such, whatever responsibility I accepted, I did the
duties as they should be done. Even in matters which I disbelieved, I was
very honest, sincere and more careful.
My real interest and resolve slowly grew towards eradicating the evils of
caste and religion. Even in that lofty ideal, I did not deem that I would be the
only fit person to do it. Somehow we were leading a very happy life. Without
depending on anyone for anything our family flourished. What else is needed
for a happy life. In other words, a man needs a healthy body and
determination to work hard for his ideals. He should not be lazy or dependent
on others for anything.
One should not change or give up his ideals for selfish gains or for getting
the favour of others. A man must have such a freedom to pursue his ideals till
his death.
I think I had that freedom and unique status. It is this freedom I enjoy and
values most, that enables me to pursue my ideals. I am in no way blindly
resolute.
If my senses are sensitive at the time of my death, I would feel happy
about my life and die peacefully. I will be completely satisfied. I will not
have any grouse or complaint. I will not feel that I have left anything
unfinished.
Because I am alive, my life must have some work. There is no life
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 52

without work. My mission was decided by me. I resolved to eradicate the
evils of casteism. I decided to crusade against god and superstitions. My aim
was to work with interest for the welfare of the society. I do, what all I can to
better the society. When this feeling gradually developed, I took it as my full
time life-work to reform the society.
WHY SELF-RESPECT MOVEMENT WAS STARTED?
I started the Self – Respect Movement with the same motive. If my
ambition is fulfilled the class hatred in society will cease. Individuals will
have no grievances. All these may exist in society merely for recreation!
Even as people play or gamble on holidays, meet with dejection, worries,
dissatisfaction, by nature’s action the society may be unnecessarily annoyed.
It is common not only to human beings but to all living beings. So any man
will have to face the good and the bad in life. With awareness of this I have
launched the movement. This is otherwise interpreted as ‘Nish Kamiya
Karma’, that is discharging duties without expecting good reward. Why
should any one do so? When a man does something expecting some good, he
will have to meet with worries. But in reality a living being has to choose
some work or other. I have undertaken the Self-Respect movement as the
work for me in life. But in this work I did not get myself dejected. It always
gives me interest .
The philosophy of Self-Respect Movement is known to the world. The
cause and effect theory is accepted by the wise world. The human being
seeks the reasons for everything. He has begun to conduct research of nature.
A life with ignorance is considered as a slave’s life. This is the doctrine of
Self – Respect Movement. Before doing anything, one should think whether
it is right or wrong, see the causes, analyse things, do research, and respect
the truths. This is what the Self-Respect means. Freedom and Self-Respect
are closely related.
Those who are for freedom today are neglecting the self-respect and
human dignity of man. This is nothing but absurd. Without self-respect there
will be no good of freedom.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 53

It is the self-respect ideal that commands feelings of freedom. The
freedom of the self-respect prevails strikingly. But the freedom of the real
freedom lovers will not be clear even to himself. Even if he understands, it
may be only in the case of particular thing.
WRONG CONCEPTIONS OF GANDHI
For example, take the concept of political freedom. Mr. Gandhi and Mr.
Jawaharlal are the two luminaries in politics.
Gandhi says, revitalising Hinduism and old method of Varnasharma
Dharma (Code of Casteism) is freedom. Deliverance from British rule is
considered as freedom. Prevalent sorrows in the human society can not be
wiped out because, that freedom will create more problems than solve some.
It is said that British subjects enjoy the greatest freedom. But you know the
king himself had to abdicate the crown to marry the lady he loved and that
too it was precipitated by the so-called elected representatives. If it is so, do
you believe that there will be any self-respect in the freedom of Gandhi or
Nehru? Do you think the British king would have forfeited the right to marry,
if there was self-respect with freedom? There is nothing so precious to man in
life as self-respect and basic human right.
Though the Self-Respect Movement made a very humble beginning, it
had to face many obstacles and repression. At many stages, there were critical
dangers. Why? The Self-Respect Movement has created a stir in Tamil Nadu,
Malayala Nadu, Andhra Nadu in the social sphere. It has made Gandhi also
do somersaults. Men are now demanding rights. High and low caste
significations are fast fading away. Bible and Quran are now given new
interpretations. If only congress had not counteracted, the Self-Respect
Movement would have spread even throughout the length and breadth of
India. Brahminism would have been completely routed and effaced out of
existence.
We are going to propagate the ideals all over India. Now our youths are
eager to undertake the task.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 54

Youths, get ready for the task!
SELF–RESPECT AND GOD AND RELIGION
Religion is the sum of the rules related to cooperative living and code of
conduct needed for a society. Self-Respect Movement is not against such a
harmoneous society. Even if it is said that religion is needed to reach god we
will not interfere. It is after all an individual’s personal affair.
But, if religion destroys the wisdom in the society, if it endangers the self-
respect, if humanity is differentiated as high and low, if it brings disunity and
demolishes freedom, our Self-Respect Movement will not leave it. Take for
example numerous religions. Let us not worry about the religions of
foreigners. Let us consider Hinduism, which is said to be our religion of
India.
Is there any other reason for Indians to be so disunited? Is not Hinduism
responsible for the creation of so many divisions and differences? Is not
Hinduism responsible for the creation of so many castes, that too some as
high and some as low? The Vedas and Sastras (Hindu Doctrines) prove these.
If we are to get rid of castes and un-touchability without converting to other
religions like Islam, think over whether anyone else except Brahmin is
enjoying so much facility and freedom in social and economic fields. What
else is needed to prove that Hindu religion should be destroyed? No one
thinks about what religion has done to humanity.
The evils caused by the intoxicating drinks are lesser, when compared to
the evils caused by religious fanaticism. Liquor spoils only when consumed.
Religion spoils you the moment you think of it.
Religion not only creates the high and low discrimination in our social
life, but also establishes high and low discrimination in our economy. Think
over!. Has not religion created a separate class of people who are hard
working and a separate class of people who enjoy without any hard work?
The wealth of the world is denied to the toiling masses. Lazy fellows who
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 55

do not exert or work are able to enjoy the wealth of the world. Is it not
because of religion? Common man is in poverty. He is made a slave, a low
caste and heinous human being. Those who have got exemption to work by
religion are free from worries and are able to amass wealth and subordinate
all others on account of this religion.
NO CASTEISM AMONG BIRDS OR ANIMALS
Birds, animals, worms, which are considered to be devoid of rationalism
do not create castes, differences as high and low, in their own species. But
man considered to be a rational being is suffering from all these because of
religion.
Amongst dogs you don’t have a brahmin dog and pariah (untouchable)
dog. Among donkeys and monkeys we do not find. But amongst men you
have. Why? Is it not because of our religion? How many years old is
Hinduism? What good has it done to Society so far.? The low caste existed
even in the days of Rama who was considered as an incarnation of god. In the
days of King Harichander there existed a Pariah (Untouchable) in the burial
ground. Selling away one’s wife too was prevalent. To this day these evils are
seen in our society. How are we to say that Hindu religion helped the people
to progress?
See, what foolish notions are taught to the people by religion. The dead
bodies are burnt to ashes and the ashes are immersed in water. But they are
believed to be alive. The descendants of the dead hand over rice, dholl,
vegetables, foot - wear etc., to a Brahmin to be safely and surely passed over
to the dead.
How are we to believe that a man has an iota of sense or ratlionalism in
doing all these. Why should you give things only to Brahmins? Why should
you fall at his feet? Why should you wash his feet and drink that water? If
this is Hindu doctrine and philosophy, such a religion must go. Take the other
rituals. Christening, house warming, marriage, puberty or anything, all are for
Brahmin’s gain. Do people of other religions and countries behave like this?
We do not respect our knowledge nor are we ashmed of our actions. Are we
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 56

merely a mass of flesh and bones? Why should anybody get angry when I say
all these to make you to think over. Who is responsible for our degradation?
Is it religion or government?
ONE GOD OF CHRISTIANS - MUSLIMS
In the scientifically advanced world, we are talking of gods and their great
deeds. This is nothing but barbarous. Because our enemies find no reasonable
charges against us, they are calling us atheists, with a bad motive and to
create mischief.
So far as god is concerned we find the Christians and Muslims, somewhat
reformed from the olden days of barbarians. They say that there can be only
one god. They say that it is beyond human comprehension. They say that god
does good to those who are good and punishes those who are bad. They say
that god has no name or shape. They talk of good qualities. We need not
worry about their god. Wise people accept their gods because they feel that
their god would serve the purpose of creating a better society. What about
Hindus and their thousands of gods created by Brahmins.? Why should
Hindus worship so many gods? How did they come? See what are all made
as gods! From cow, horse, bullock, monkey, bandicoot, stone, birds, metals,
paper, all are deemed as gods. When I was in Kasi (Varanasi in North India -
a holy town for Hindus), I saw two dogs being worshipped. Moreover gods
have wives, concubines, and prostitutes. These gods are believed to eat, sleep
and reproduce. They also have marriages and funerals.
Let them attribute anything to these gods. Kidnapping girls, gods
enjoying with prostitutes are celebrated as festivals. Crores of rupees are
wasted for these. The precious time of the people is wasted. Think over,
whether all these are things to be done in the 20th Century.
IDIOTIC MARRIAGES - EXPENSES - OFFERINGS
Should we not feel ashamed of all these? Is it just or right to call us
atheists? If there are gods, should they be like this? Will any intelligent man
accept this? Does god require all these things we do, as pooja (prayer),
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 57

offerings, marriages etc.,? Does any god approve all these? Seeing the gods
as mere toys, we perform marriage thrice a year to them, why that? If gods
really need wives, should we not find out what happened to the wives
married last year? Were they divorced? Were they segregated? Have they
deserted their husbands and ran away or have all died? Should we not think
of all these? Why celebrate marriages every year for gods? Why Music,
show, pomp and expenses? Do you know who eats the feast at marriages?
How many festivals every year and at various places? What have we gained
by all these? So far as our education is concerned 95% people are illiterate. In
the world, our India is a very poor country. Should we not think why we
should squander money in the name of god?
How many times do we perform poojas (prayers) and place offerings to
god a day? How many measures of rice, dholl, and other articles are placed
before god? People have no education, no work, no meal. Please consider
how many crores of rupees are wasted year after year for celebrating
Eakadasi, Arudra, Thai Poosam, Karthigai, and for visiting temples at
Tirupathi, Thiruchendur and Rameswaram.
If we consider what pains are taken for these expenses, none could assert
that gods have done good to our people in any manner. If the huge amount
spent this way is diverted to other fields, we can run the government without
taxes. If we create new industries and educational institutions we can solve
the problems of illiteracy and unemployment. There will be no exploitation
by foreign countries. Just to make a particular section of people (Brahmins)
remain lazy and yet lead their lives well, why all others should bestow their
hard earned money foolishly for all these?
How senselessly are we behaving in the name of god and devotion? How
ugly do we seem when we carry the kavadi (a bent pole with metal vessels at
both ends) on our shoulders! Wearing saffron colour cloth people roll in the
streets! People shave their head, smear mud and ashes on the body! People
prick themselves with small arrows into their tongue and other parts of body.
People bathe in dirty water. All these in the name of god and devotion!
Moreover, milk, ghee, curd, honey, fruit, juices are being poured on the
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 58

stone idols. They flow into gutters. All eatables are wasted. Are we to see this
as mere fun? Do all these gods need gold jewels worth crores? Are costly silk
garments needed? Why tall towers and big compound walls? Why gold and
silver ‘Vimanas’ ? Are they not public property? Does religious duty mean
that we should waste money on idols and thus help the lazy Brahmins to loot
our money, enabling their people to become Indian Administrative Service
(I.A.S) Officers, Judges, State Diwans etc.? If all these are for god’s
blessings, should there be such gods? Think over.
o the Muslims follow this sort of worship of god? Do the Christians do?
Will the rationalist Indian accept all these?
MONOPOLY OF BRAHMINS
When are we to get into the right path of devotion to god? When I ask
this, the Brahmins dub us as atheists. Believing these Brahmins and their
hirelings, the ignorant people raise the cry against us that god is in danger,
religion is in danger! Is behaving in this barbarous way, theism or atheism?
Whatever it be, we will not be cowed down by their hindering activities.
Whatever we feel right, we will boldly say. We say Hindu religion and gods
are dreadful diseases. Unless they are effaced out of existence our people
cannot and country would not prosper. We say what we feel.
It is for you to think and act. We don’t compel you to believe what all we
say as the Brahmins do. They say that if anyone believes god he will go to
heaven. If anyone does not believe he will go to hell.
When I left the Congress party in 1925, I realized that our politics was
under the monopoly of Brahmins. In the name of struggle for freedom of
India it is the Brahmins who played the major role. Their struggle was not for
establishing a good government for the people. There was no common cause
behind the struggle. I was for crushing the Brahmin monopoly. I realized that
god, religion and castes make them strong to exploit others and lead a happy
life. I started the Self-Respect Movement myself and enlisted the co-
operation of others. Congress pursued a policy of concentrating only on
political reform. It neglected the social field. In the name of implementing a
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 59

constructive programme, the Congress wanted to grab power and establish
political domination. While my main aim was social reform and as I was
doing my best to eradicate the evils in the name of god, religion, caste,
dharma and sastras (Hindu Doctrines), I had to take steps to prevent Brahmin
domination in politics.
My public life was multi-faced. My responsibilities increased. I had to
swim against the current. My work was in fact a very tough one. If I counter
the Brahmins politically, they made a march in the social field. If I countered
them in the social field, they cleverly made a march in the political field. I
had to arouse the feelings of the innocent Dravidian people in both the fields.
I had to face a lot of difficulties in this task.
With all that, there was yet another trouble to me from my own men.
Those who have become my followers attained maturity in many matters and
gained publicity among the public. They became pawns in the hands of the
enemies. Many actually opposed me and my work. I could only say that they
did so as Prahaladan or Vibishanan did. After serving the public for 40 years
I don’t find any other reason for their acts. It is for the wise people to assess
the value of my service in the past 40 years.
WHY DRAVIDIANS DEMAND EQUAL STATUS?
We find Brahmin-Sudra differentiation in temples, shrines, schools,
public roads, hotels, etc. Were the high and low discriminations, created by
us or by Brahmins? If any one should think over all these, no one will dare to
call us communalists.
The Brahmins do not for a moment realise that it is wrong to lower us to
disgraceful state and at the same time raising themselves as the highest and
respectable. What all we demand is equal status with self respect. But this is
considered as a great sin or blunder.
They call it a godly movement or theist movement by safeguarding Aryan
doctrines and Varnasharama Dharma (Colour based casteism code), at the
same time making others as Sudras and Untouchables. But our Movement
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 60

which stands for the destruction of Sudra name and untouchability is dubbed
as atheists. They say that to talk with us (Dravidians) , or to see us is sinful.
But they say it is not sinful to fall at their feet. They say it is not sinful to call
them ‘Samy’.
They say it is not sinful to see or touch the things to be offered to
Brahmins. Nothing should be distributed to us first, they say. They insist that
we should take them only after they have touched and tasted. They say we go
to heaven by prostrating before them and drinking the water after washing
their feet. They tuck the sacred thread they wear in the ear as they pass urine
or motion. They say that they escape pollution by this. They will wear the
thread only after a bath or when they deem they are pure and clean. Similarly
they tuck the thread in the ear when they talk to the Sudras. Is it all non-
communalism? We are asked to close our mouth with the hand or anything,
when we talk to them. They object to the sound waves touching them.
We can cite thousands of such examples. Yet they, who stand in the way
of our progressive life call us communalists and atheists. Many of us forfeit
our human rights. Many are afraid of Brahmins. We should deem it a duty to
make our people aware of their rights.
Look at what is happening in our politics. The Congress movement,
started to get posts for them, was named as a national movement. They
(Brahmins) are heaping evils on us as partners. They help the govt., and
occupy high posts fetching 1000, 2000, 5000, 10,000 rupees as salary. They
live, by supporting the government enjoying its favour, to grab high positions
in the courts and educational institutions.
When we aspire for any of these, the Brahmins say that we are not fit.
When we want to get ourselves made fit, they say we are unpatriotic and
communalistic.
So it is absolutely desirable to have a separate Movement for us. Only
then we will be able to solve our problems. We need a Movement to face our
difficulties. We need a Movement to find a solution to our problems. We
should gain freedom with self-respect. We should all come together and work
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 61

hard in the Movement. Everyone should play his part in the Movement.
*~*~*
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 62

PHILOSOPHY -
Periyar’s Perception
(Speech delivered by Thanthai Periyar E.V. Ramasami, at the Salem Arts
College, in 1947. Prof. Thiru. Ramasami, Principal of the College presided).
PHILOSOPHY-PERIYAR’S PERCEPTION
Today I am invited to address on behalf of the Philosophy
partment of the Salem College. Students, teachers, and many other
citizens have assembled here. I do not deem it an easy task to address such an
august audience. I do not know how far I would succeed in making you all
understand and feel satisfied. Moreover, it is absolutely essential to talk about
the philosophies and doctrines first and foremost. I feel that it is not an easy
affair to discuss about philosophies and doctrines.
Philosophic understanding and philosophic expressions are true. To
explain it further, it is an urge to see things as they are and understand them
in their proper perspective. Shortly, it may be called the knowledge gained
from natural experiences.
We are accustomed to differentiate philosophy from nature. It is hard for
us to seek the truths as they are and it is extremely difficult to understand the
meaning behind things. Let me illustrate it with an example. When we see a
man, we see him and judge by appearance. The real man by nature is not
seen. To see the man as “created” by nature is to see him without any
changes and without any concealment as a naked man. Such an appearance,
though true, will not be liked in the modern world. Moreover, it will be a
source of repulsion and hatred causing a lot of inconveniences in life.
Similarly, if you try to see other things also in their true and real state, it
will be hateful, uncomfortable and displeasing. That is the reason why some
people say that man has to attain a certain stage in life to understand
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 63

philosophy.
That is the reason, why I mentioned that my interpretation of philosophy
will be unpalatable to many people. There is a famous adage that he who
boldly tells the unadulterated truths will become the arch enemy of many
people. By this it is not meant that all people should be liars. It only indicates
that the real truth and philosophy are prevalent in the society in a different
form by nature and name. On account of this many truths are found to be
unconvincing.
Naturally, the task of explaining any philosophy to the people is more or
less a very delicate and difficult one. Moreover, the President of this meeting,
while introducing me stated that I am an atheist, a hater of religions and an
opponent of politicians. After all I am only an ordinary person. As such it is
much more difficult for a man like me to interpret realities in the philosophic
thoughts and doctrines.
Yet, I shall try my best to interpret philosophic realities, as a sort of my
humble explanation to my critics. As I was deeply contemplating as to what
to talk in this august gathering, the President referred to certain opinions
about me and I deem it more than enough to deal with them in my speech.
Comrades! Anything may be considered either as insignificant or as a
vital importance. I will tell you how! For ordinary people, god, religion and
politics are not of much importance. They overlook the real significance of
the philosophic doctrines behind them. But to the learned people they are of
very great importance. So they take pains to understand even the minute
details and propagate them.
We find all sorts of people attending the vocal recital by great musicians.
Ordinary people listen to the words and ideas in the song and dispense with
the music stating that “He sang in praise of god, or He sang about ladies.”
They are content with that and feel satisfied about the music performance,
they attended. But those who have a knowledge about the science of music,
would be more keen in listening to the musical performance, they attended, to
assess the extent to which the songster had mastered the minute details about
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 64

music. Because of their presence the songster would be very careful
regarding his performance. That is why I stated in the beginning that
whatever I talk may be considered as trivial by some and as most vital by
some others.
GOD
The President referred to god and explained that he is capable of doing
anything and everything. Referring to religion he said that religion is like a
bridge to link man with god. This is not a religious meeting. This is a meeting
to discuss about the philosophy in general. We have to discuss in detail the
philosophy of god and religion and I wish to speak about it threadbare. I like
to make a clean breast of all matters.
Many people are of the opinion that I am an atheist and a non-believer in
religion. Many have exposed it openly. I would be really happy if the atheists
had expressed so. If the theists feel like that I can only pity them. Not only
that. I would indeed be sorry to live amongst such people. If I am to feel it
delicate to express my views frankly in this meeting which is convened to
discuss about the true philosophy, it would amount to my deceiving the truth
seekers.
So I wish to state plainly that it is on account of ignorance that the theists
call me as an atheist. I would say that it is more on account of their
irresponsibility.
Let me cite an example to clarify it further.
A Brahmin who ekes out his living came to a place where there was an
auspicious function. He asked for alms. The patron of the house gave four
annas (now 25 paise) to him as he gave others. The Brahmin asked him,
“I am one who does not blame others. I have no pride. I have no lust for
money. I have renounced all these. Is it justifiable to give me four annas
knowing pretty well that I have studied the four vedas, six shastras, eighteen
puranas? You gave the same four annas to the uneducated donkeys. Is this
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 65

your dharma?”
Similarly these theists blame others as atheists. Now let us see how these
theists came to believe in god.
The believers in god say he is all powerful. They say that he is
everywhere. They say that he is peerless. They say that everything is going
on with his consent. If it is conceived that I deny such a god, I would say that
it is what the Brahmin also said. Brahmins proclaim that they are unselfish.
They are said to be renouncers on one side. Again they talk high of their
mastery or vedas and sastras. This itself reveals their self flattery.
Further, asserting that they do not abuse or hate others, they call others as
uneducated fools. They envy others sharing four annas like them.
Further stating that they have renounced everything and that they do not
have any lust for money; they tell “ you give me only four annas!”
All these clearly indicate that the Brahmins are not true to their own
claims. High qualities attributed to the Brahmins are belied by their own
actions. We don’t find them to be true Brahmins. There is a vast difference
between what they say and do.
Similarly when the believers in god say that god is omnipotent and
omniscient, how could it be possible for a man to deny it. When an ordinary
man denies god, it proves that there is no god that is omnipotent and
omniscient. Further it proves that the qualities attributed to god by Brahmins
are baseless. They are mere imaginary concoctions about god. That is all.
To say that those who deny god are atheists is based on ignorance. It is
senseless to call a man as an atheist.
If god truly exists, what is it that an atheist is going to gain by denying
god? If god is really omnipotent, what is he going to gain by making an
ordinary man deny his existence? Under this situation, it is evident no man
will foolishly deny the existence of god. Similarly no god will foolishly
undertake to create man as an atheist.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 66

You will have to think of all these. If you really ponder over these things,
you will realize that it is not right to blame anyone as an atheist or non-
believer in god.
It is those who have not known god, who call others atheists and non-
believers in god. That itself is atheism. It is the theists who have created the
atheists. It is out of their ignorance that atheism is spreading. Please think
over, whether it will be possible for a man to deny god, if the god really
exists? So we come to the natural conclusion that the terms atheism and
atheists were the outcome of Brahmin ignorance or it must be that Brahmins
created them to carry on their profession profitably in the name of god. So
god is meant for those who trade in his name. Others need not worry about
god at all.
Investigating the philosophy of god really means to expose all matters
related to god in full and in detail. We have to conduct research to find out
the naked truths about god. The fundamental for conducting any research is
to find out first what it is. Then find out why it is and then see how it is and
then ask where it is and finally decide when it came into being. We will have
to put these queries and ascertain the convincing replies. We need not hesitate
to question. We must study things without any restraint in an unbiased way.
Probing into philosophy means arguing matters. Both are correlative for our
purpose. So to establish beyond doubt that there is a god, which is really
omnipotent and omniscient, it is not enough if these six or seven questions
are put. It is essential to test by any number of operations.
A blind believer in god may ignore this aspect. He may think it
unnecessary and unwarranted. But for a researcher of philosophy it is a must.
God should not exist out of blind belief. He should not be recognized as god
by mere ignorance. Moreover for rational human beings, particularly to the
researcher, god should not exist by mere heresay or ignorance or blind belief.
What for god?
Why god?
Which is god?
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 67

One who conducts a research about the philosophy of god must know the
answer for such queries and that too in detail and in a manner quite
convincing.
Every human being is rational – Man is endowed with reason to think
deeply. It is for ascertaining the truth in its proper perspective. As such a man
should not degrade himself as a mere animal. He should eschew blind beliefs.
Man has involved himself into a number of difficulties by misusing his
rationalism. He has created gods to find relief from his vexing problems.
What for a ruler and the ruled?
Why a rich man and a poor man?
Why high and low castes?
What for a toiling worker and a lazy fellow?
What for a slave and a master?
What for a begger and a lord?
Now you think over all these. What for god? Don’t you think that god is
created only to protect all these? Apart from this what has god done to man?
Did god do anything good to the humanity so far? Do we need such a god to
protect the evils only?
Who is responsible for the absence of peace, love and satisfaction in the
society? Who is responsible if men endowed with rationalism die in disgust
and worries? Is it not due to the belief in god?
If we attribute foolishness as the basic reason for all these, what for a man
is gifted with rationalism? Could it be said that man is endowed with
rationalism to act foolishly, to believe foolishly and behave foolishly.
Man is said to have rationalism; yet all the bad qualities are in him, all the
worries he faces, all the defects and drawbacks in him, his hatred towards
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 68

others, his betrayals are not found in the case of other beings, which are
considered to be devoid of rationalism.
Why should a rational man display bad qualities, which are not seen even
in wild animals? Is it because of the creation of a god? Is it because he
believes in a god? Is it because he has misconceived great powers in god? If
we are not able to study and find out what exactly is the reason for this state
of affairs and suggest a solution; what else is the purpose of rationalism?
What for a god? Was god recognised by man in a natural way? Did others
make man recognize and believe him? If god was not created by others, how
is it that he is not seeable for all. Even to those who profess to have
recognized him, he appears in many ways and in different forms. Why should
god’s functions, powers and behaviours too differ in many ways?
If god was a created thing, why was he created. For what reason was he
created? Did the creators of god succeed in their attempts. Did god solve the
problem or fulfill the reason for his creation?
Whether he came into being or was created by others; how is it the people
are able to go against his wishes and dictations?
God is said to be all powerful. He is said to be everywhere. He is said to
be controlling anything and everything in the world. If all these are true, tell
me anything that god has done so far. In the name of god, it is the man who
does everything. Not only that, man is able to disrespect and ignore god and
yet do many things. Things which are detrimental to the interests of man are
taking place! Things which are not useful and helpful to society are also
taking place! We are not able to see everything done perfectly, to the
satisfaction of one and all. There is nothing that takes place without the
efforts of man. There is nothing in our life to be proud of god. It is the hard
work of the man that is able to do laudable things. If the world is safe and
humanity is sound it is on account of the efforts taken by men. Everything is
protected and safeguarded by the efforts of man only. We could say that even
gods are safe because of the efforts of man.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 69

RELIGION
Now let us consider religion
Today, the people are of the opinion that all the religions were created by
the people. In the society you find good people as well as bad people.
Similarly you can classify the society into two categories. Those who are
serving the society and those who are self-interested. It is not possible to
divide the society as those who have divine powers and those who do not
have divine powers. That sort of differentiation will not be possible as there
are no substantial grounds based on knowledge, proof and experience. So
whatever religion you may take, you cannot assert that it had come into
existence on account of divine powers. You will only come to the conclusion
that it was created by some learned people who evinced deep concern about
the society. That is the only truth, a researcher of philosophy could find out.
What is actually meant by philosophical enquiry?
A learned scholar who has a foreword to (a Commentary Book on)
‘Kural’ - a rational literature of Thruvalluvar in Tamil, has written that false
has become false whereas truths devoid of false have remained as truths. So
anything that is false must disappear anyday. Truths must be reckoned as
truths someday or other. Otherwise it will be derogatory to scientific research
and investigation. Seeking the truths is the purpose of research.
Distinguishing the truth from the false is the purpose of research. If you
deviate from this and attempt to make the false as true in the name of
philosophic research, it will end in giving false image to falsehoods and lies.
If research of philosophy adds strength to falsehood, it will be belitting the
rationality of man.
When you consider about religion and enquire as to what for a religion is
created for man, the religious people reply that religion is needed to link man
with god and to make the man reach the kingdom of god. Religion was
created for this purpose by divine people. This is what the President of the
meeting also said in his speech. Do you think that this is acceptable to
philosophic research and scientific investigation? If it is true that divine men
have created a religion for creating relationship between man and religion, it
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 70

only shows the weakness of god, who is considered to be all powerful. Man
needs another man or divine man to relate him with god. What is meant by
such relationship?
If it is true that God is everywhere and is endowed with super natural
powers and if it is true that He only controls all actions in the world, why
should there be an intermediary to create relationship between Him and man?
What is the need for such a relationship? Further I like to ask as to who links
the plants, worms, germs and birds with god. Why any one is needed to link
all those living beings which are devoid of rationalism? They do not need a
god!. They do not know anything about god. They don’t require an
intermediary or a religion. But, for a man endowed with rationalism, divine
person and a religion are essentially needed to realize a god. Man has to
depend on these for relationship with god. What do you think of these? Is it
acceptable to the reasoning talents of a researcher of philosophy?
As I said before, you may sort out good people, learned people,
benevolent people in the society. But to sort out some people as divine people
and say that they were alone created by god is unfair, unjust and
unbelievable. If it is true that god created such men as divine persons, I like
to ask as to who created other people. If god is the creator of humanity, why
should he create crores of people as ordinary beings and create only a few as
divine persons, to get himself related to man? Is it necessary to do so? Why
should he labour many times so hard to create humanity? Could he not do it
in a simple and uniform method?
It may be said that it is his will and pleasure and it may be accepted by
some people blindly. But we are today discussing about philosophies. We can
not exempt anyone or anything from the purview of research. We must go
from the grass roots in every matter. Moreover we are discussing about
philosophy and so we have every right to question about anything and
everything. It is our duty to conduct inquiry about god, religion, and their
philosophies. Interpretation of philosophy is inclusive of god and religion.
We can not leave it. For other matters we need not make much enquiry. Most
of them are self-explanatory. We don’t take much pains to do research about
gold, copper, silver and other metals. We don’t accept the metals for use
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 71

without touching them and testing them. But as we have chosen the
philosophy of god and religion as the subject for the day it is a difficult
matter for investigation and it needs a lot of thinking and reasoning. We have
to seek the truths about them. If the thinking and reasoning qualities in the
man are forbidden to probe into this matter, we will never realize the truths
about god and religion. It will result in giving an eternal life for false
religions. God and religion would ever remain as tools of mere blind belief.
That is why I appeal to you to think over whether an intermediary is needed
to realize god.
Next, if it is true that god could be realized and reached by man only with
a religion, why should there be so many religions. Is there no limitation for
religious and divine persons? Why should there be controversies,
irregularities and contradictions amongst the religions created by men said to
posses divine powers? Why should there be religious wars? Why should
massacre take place in the name of religions? Why should sufferings and
miseries overtake humanity on account of religions? It may be said they are
not due to divinity but because of human ignorance! The argument does not
hold water. If a man endowed with rationalism is not able to understand,
other men cannot. If a rational being falls a victim to hatred and ill-feelings
resulting in riots and quarrels, how is it for a man to realize and reach a god
that is not physically congnisible? Moreover, god is said to be not visible and
understandable for ordinary men. How is it possible for men to recognize
god? Please think over. How are we to consider the creators of these religions
as divine personalities, when there are so many quarrels, man-handling, riots,
loss and damage in the society? You will have to think over all these.
Is not the existence of religions responsible for differentiations and
disunity amongst the people of the world? Aren’t the religions to be blamed
for the hatred in the society? Aren’t the religions responsible for man
swindling and exploiting the other man?
How are we to believe that all these religions were created by men with
divine powers? We have to deeply ponder over these issues. Because the
creators of religions are credited to be men of divinity, many others later on
came to be revered as divine persons. Their number is going on increasing
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 72

day by day. No one cares to think of it. Buddha, Jesus, Mohamad,
Nayanmars, Alwars, Swamijis, Mahatmas, Rishis, Sai Babas and umpteen of
others are parading themselves as divine men. There are many controversies,
agitations, fights and difference of opinion about them.
After the advent of rationalist propaganda, there is an awakening. A large
section of the people are now able to exercise their thinking faculties in an
unbiased manner. With the result you find the divine men dwindling. For
many centuries back, Alwars, Nayanmars and Dasars were not born. What
have these divine people achieved to emancipate masses? How many are able
to realize god and research god and reach him on account of their preaching?
As things stand today people are not prepared to accept all sorts of fellows as
divine men. Rarely do we find efforts taken to create one or two divine
personalities here and there. Even such creations met with an early end as an
exotic plant. The more and more you aspire to realize the truth about god and
religion, they go far away from you in gallops.
My interpretation of philosophy behind god and religion might cause you
surprise. Some of my views might be different from your views.
Why should there be so much bewilderment about god and religion,
which are repeatedly emphasized as important and indispensable for
humanity. Many considered these as true and absolutely necessary for man.
In fact, many believed these versions, with the result god and religion gained
a vast influence and importance in the life of man. Why such a planned
propaganda is being carried on even now to substantiate god and religion by
these different divine men? How does any urgency arise for it? What is the
result? Who is able to gain by this?
Above all, are we to think that Jesus and Mohamed, who were unselfish
and who sacrificed a lot were not able to understand the real philosophy
behind god and religion as they are preached today?
Comrades! Man is not able to see or feel god directly and independently,
even though god is said to be all powerful and capable of controlling all
things in the world. He is still dependent on others called the divine people.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 73

God has to be denoted as god by others. Similarly religions did not crop up of
their own accord. They were simply created by others. Man has to be forced
to act according to religion and their regulations.
What is the logical inference?
God and religion are confusing the society. They are to be indicated to
humanity by someone else. They are unable to establish by themselves. They
need others for that purpose. They still need a strong propaganda. This is
what we are able to understand clearly.
Whatever it be, we cannot totally condemn all the so called divine men.
We cannot also suspect all their actions. Jesus and Mohamed come under this
category. It cannot be denied that there is no wisdom in everything they said.
We cannot say that all were selfish.
Since god and religion are created exclusively for the rational human
beings, and so no god or religion is created for other living beings, we are led
to believe that they are created for the wellbeing of humanity only.
Such a necessity arises only because of the fact that of all the living
beings, it is only the human beings who live together forming a society of
their own.
Generally speaking all living beings look after themselves. They are eager
to get their own desires fulfilled. It is their natural instinct. They do not worry
about the comforts of other.
Man is wiser than other living beings. If a man is induced by unlimited
selfishness, it may endanger the interests of others. It might result in causing
danger to the society. It is this concept that justifies the creation of god and
religion. For a man living totally isolated, there is no need for a god or
religion. But a man who lives with others as a part of the bigger society,
certain restrictions were naturally imposed on him on various walks of life.
He has got to live in an unnatural way. Only then the society can exist.
Otherwise you will find men behaving as mere beasts in the society. In order
to enable a man live against nature and for general welfare, the learned elders
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 74

ought to have created and preached about god and religion.
To understand this clearly, please think over what for the institutions like
king, government, laws and punishment were there. If there is no kindness,
law and punishment there will be no peace. There will be no adequate
protection. There will be no order. We are able to lead at least this much of
life because of such arrangements as king, laws and punishment. These are of
course helpful to enable people to live together. Yet we cannot say that
nothing more is needed. Much more is needed to enable the society to be
completely peaceful. Much more is needed to prevent man from harming
others. Certain things cannot be achieved by the mere promulgation of law.
All men should have mutual love, to receive help from others. There must be
discipline, love, sympathy, honesty, indebtedness amongst all people. They
should think of the good and oppose things which are bad. No one should
covet the belongings of others.
All these and very many other things cannot be achieved by merely
passing laws. In short if man is allowed to live with natural freedom, he
cannot be disciplined. He will not stop from harming others. Regulations and
compulsions are found to be necessary. Such regulations cannot be imposed
on humanity by laws. So god was created to make the people submit to
regulations by force. The very purpose of creating god and religion is merely
to make the people think and act in a particular way. Is there any other reason
for such creations.? God and religion are exploited to teach that the dictations
of god and religion alone have the right to go to heaven. Such a propaganda
in the name of god make the gullible public pray to god for his blessings. The
greed in man and the fear in man are the two things which are used as more
powerful weapons, than the ruler’s laws and punishment. God and religion
are helpful to the society in this manner.
There is another vital issue, which I like to discuss. In these days of
advanced scientific development you find the religious propaganda geared
up, you may ask why, it is so. To be brief, the need for more religious
propaganda is more keenly felt now. It is due to various reasons. Right to
hold property individually has increased against nature. Society is in the grip
of communalism. There are increasing signs of high and low discriminations.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 75

The agitation against exploitation and domination is in the ascendancy.
Demands are increasing seeking justice and equality. Mere laws cannot
curtail all these. A grave situation is fast developing. No ruler could rest with
the present laws to overcome the danger, even though the high caste superior
community had created the ruler and the laws. Those who defy laws have to
be seriously dealt with by law by the people. But if the poor and the degraded
people rise up in revolt, there can be no ruler. Laws cannot function in chaos.
No one would be afraid of punishments. In case such unnatural situations are
created, it is necessary to seek adequate protection and it is for that, god and
religion are found to be necessary. If there is no god there cannot be the rich
and poor. Similarly if there is no religion there is no place for high and low
caste discriminations.
So we come to the conclusion that god and religion are created to
safeguard the interests of the rich people, exploiters, high caste people,
Mahans, and other vested interests. The ruler and laws of the land and the
system of punishment thrive safely because of god and religion. Is it because
of the fact that the society could be controlled in the name of god and religion
much better? What can not be forbidden by law could be easily forbidden by
religion.
To be more explicit I would say that god and religion are absolutely
necessary to solve things which are against nature. The divine persons desire
that people should live under unnatural surroundings and unnatural
conditions. That is why they entrusted themselves to the task of creating more
and more gods and religions.
If we succeed in the task of destroying rulers, caste and differentiations in
the society, all these gods and religions would go into oblivion and become
insignificant. So we come to the final conclusion that god and religion hold
only this much of impact in philosophy.
NATURE OF MAN
Now let us see why god and religion were created? To whose advantage
were they created? What is the motive of the divine men in creating god and
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 76

religion? All these took place, because man alone was endowed with
rationalism.
Even as the creation of the philosophy of god and religion are not
understandable and un-realizable for man, there is another creation by the
god-men. You cannot see or touch or feel it. They call it soul. Let us now
look into that philosophy.
What is a man and what is a soul? Man is considered as one of the many
beings you find in the world. Of the various things in the world some are
animate and others are inanimate. In other words they are called living beings
and non-living beings. All these are the outcome of the combination of
various things. They are assigned names according to their particular shape
and form. If you separate the parts of a thing it loses its name, and the
separated parts attain different names. Finally the original shape and form is
destroyed. Man is considered to be one like that.
Look at a man. In appearance he resembles a man. You touch any part of
his body. It has a different and specific name as head, hand, leg, chest. But
supposing you are asked to touch your head, you may touch the hair or face
or neck. It is so in the case of other objects as hose, lamp, water, chair, foot
wear, broom, vessel, cart, ship and so on. So we realize that any object or
article is merely the combination of many things. That means the
combinations of various things with their different qualities. The combined
things give a definite shape and the combined form derives a specific name.
A carpenter creates various articles out of timber with Iron. The created
objects derive different names as chair, bench, box, cot, bureau, cart, train,
ship and so on. With two raw materials wood and iron, one creates thousands
of articles, with different functions. Now what is man? He is also one like
other objects made out of very many raw materials. Man can move about and
exert by himself. Animals as cow, bull, pig, ass, horse, elephant, lion, tiger,
fox, snake, scorpion, birds, worms, germs and other living beings are also
combination of various other raw materials. Man is also like other living
beings. Why? It is because he is able to talk and express himself clearly. So
man has made himself great. But you see birds fly very high in the sky and
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 77

show that they are greater than other living beings in this respect.
As such we see there is nothing peculiar or great in man. We could only
say that in respect of thinking and expressing and doing things alone man is
able to surpass other living beings in a striking manner.
One must unhesitatingly accept that rationalism and thinking ability are
found to a greater extent only in man. This quality in man is an accepted
factor, but we find greater strength in certain living beings, which a man does
not have. But we will have to think over whether such a greater strength
found in them is in any way helpful to other living things or to the men. It is
because man is able to think rationally, god and religion were created to
regulate orderly life. The promoters of god and religion say that man will not
pursue a straight path without them.
I wish to point out that rationalism in man has made him much worried.
There is no end for his desire. He is made zealous and envious of others.
His thinking talent has made man exploit another man, degrade another
man, hate another man and also swindle another man.
You cannot say that man endowed with rationalism and thinking ability
does not do anything bad, as other living beings. Animals harm, give trouble
and cause misery to other living beings! What about man? Could you say
man does not harm others or cause misery to others? No! Yet we say man is
endowed with rationalism and power of thinking.
Some people call themselves greater than other men because they are able
to paint pictures or compose poems or produce gold or go to London and
return in one day. Are they really great? Please think over. Even as every
living being has its own quality, man also has some qualities. Are we to call a
man great, because he is alive without facing death? Are we to call a man
great because he is able to do deceitful acts?
We find all living beings having almost the same character, thoughts and
ways of doing things. In nature they are almost similar. Even in the aspects of
birth, reproduction and death, there is almost uniformity amongst all living
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 78

beings.
But in the society man is considered as a separate individual.
We attribute different qualities to different persons. We call some as good
persons. We dislike some as bad elements. We consider some as rude by
nature. We see some as Sadhus, kind, frugal, honest, tyrannical, grateful,
betraying, wise, foolish and curious. Why do we attribute different qualities
to different persons? What is the reason for these differences? Are they
themselves responsible for their character? Or their form, the combination of
different parts in the body, is responsible for their actions and nature. Please
think over this aspect deeply.
What do you find in a dog? It is grateful, it guards the house. It is faithful
to the master.
You find a fox having almost the same appearance as a dog. But what
about its behaviour? You find it having absolutely contrasting qualities. What
is the reason for this?
Even amongst dogs, some are biting dogs. Some dogs do not bite. Some
dogs steal food. Some dogs are always close to the master. Some dogs do not
come near unless called. Some dogs are very intelligent. Some dogs do not
understand anything. What is responsible for these differences? Are they
natural? Are we to say it is all due to the different raw materials combined in
the body by birth?
Some bulls always injure men with horns. Some do not react even if you
beat.
One elephant refuses to carry the rider and kills him. Another elephant
submits quietly for everything. It is always mild.
Are the animals responsible for all these? Are they by nature like that? Do
they imbibe these qualities by birth? Could we say that the raw materials
composed in the parts of the body are responsible? Think over.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 79

Now let us consider man. Look at his behaviour. Why some people are
thieves? Why some are always ungrateful, unkind, haughty and selfish? Why
some are fond of uttering lies.? Why some are betrayers and envious
elements? Man’s behaviour , nature and actions are related to the various
components in his human body.
You know the musical instrument called flute. It is one object. The
musician is one and the same person. The hole where he places his mouth is
also the same. But how does he produce different sounds? It is due to the
different holes he plays with his fingers in the instrument. Similarly in the
case of living beings, particularly man, his nature, behaviour and actions are
related to the parts and components in his body as the brain, the nerves and so
on. So man is not responsible for all the prevalent differences. There are his
contents in his body, which are responsible.
Men endowed with rationalism have failed to understand this and act
accordingly. Simply blaming man for all his actions is inapt and illogical.
Man was denied the scope to fully understand the nature of man.
Even as appearance is the effect of eyesight, even as sense of hearing is
the effect of ears, you find wisdom, friendship, ability to invent and
investigate and other qualities such as anger, laughter, love and vendetta are
the effects of cells, nerves, corpuscles, etc, ingrained in the body of man.
I speak about this in detail to stress the fact that man is not directly, solely
responsible for all these actions and behaviours.
You find the dog faithful. A cat acts stealthily. Owl can see in the night.
An eagle can spot out things from a long distance. All these are possible and
they are based on the tendency of the cells and other parts of the body in
them. One’s actions are based on the set up of the parts of the body and the
nature of the ingredients of the parts composed of into one living being. So I
do not think it justiciable to punish a thief with god or religion or sastras or
laws.
How could god punish a hen for eating the worms? How could god
punish a cat killing a rat? How could god punish an eagle for lifting away
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 80

cocks and hens? If god is really capable of punishing for all these, he must
also be capable of punishing white ants which eat away and destroy wooden
things. God must also be capable of punishing the mud for rusting away iron
parts in an object.
Now I believe that I have made myself very clear about the formation and
functions of human body. Now I take up soul.
SOUL
You have seen that while we discussed the human body and its parts,
there was no need to mention anything about soul. Whatever was found in the
human was revealed. Parts of the body are able to be seen and felt. Our
experience helped us a lot to understand everything in the body clearly. They
were acceptable to our reason.
But if we take up soul for consideration, we can neither see it nor touch it.
We have no experience about it. So far as our knowledge is concerned, we
are not able to recollect anything about it.
‘Soul’ is simply based on blind thought and belief. Intellect or experience
has no role to play regarding soul. Then what is soul? It is created as
imaginary as god. God is not a thing with a definite form or appearance. Soul
is also like that. God is neither visible nor touchable. So also is the soul! God
has no fixed and definite limbs or parts as eyes, nose, ears, mouth, hands, and
body. So also is the soul. One cannot conceive or realize god. You cannot
assess its powers or see its functioning. No one is able to establish existence
of god by convincing methods and reasonable ways. Soul is also like god.
Why do we need a soul? What for was it created? Who created it? Who is
benefited by it.? You get no reply from any source for all these. You will
have to simply believe that there is nothing called soul. ‘Soul’ is something
which cannot be questioned or tested.
But, ‘soul’ has been accepted, as most of the people do in the case of god
and religion, due to certain circumstances. Others, the non-believers in god
and religion, who are accustomed to rational thinking have nothing to do with
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 81

what is called soul. An inquiry into the philosophy of soul is necessary.
Body, mouth, nose, ears and eyes are called Pancha Indiriyas (Five
Senses). Thinking, speaking and action are called Mukaranam. If anything is
not established as true by all these senses, it cannot be really existent. There
are people who say that god is beyond proof. But to say that anything and
everything is beyond the test for finding truth would amount to erasing the
word truth from the dictionary.
The word ‘ Athma’ (Soul) is not a Tamil word. It is clear from this that
Tamilians of Dravidian race were absolutely not aware of the philosophy of
soul. You find the soul described only in the Northern Indian language
Sanskrit. The word ‘soul’ in English does not connote the meaning and
interpretation given by the Brahmins.
You don’t find a place given or allotted to soul in the human body. Soul is
not assigned with specific work related to the body. You find that every part
of the body is doing a definite work. Soul has no work in the body. All the
parts in the body function. Our organs of senses enable us to feel things.
Everything is found to be natural. But what about ‘Soul’? Where is it? What
is it? What is its function?
‘Soul’ is something unnatural, unwanted and unrelated to the human
body.
How does a machine work? It is because of the various parts assembled
together. Look at a clock. It shows time. It wakes up man by ringing the
alarm. There are many kinds of arrangements inside. Accordingly it performs
different functions.
If we are to probe into the matter further we would accept the fact that
there is a clock, with different parts arranged suitably, to perform different
functions. What else could be said? Who will believe if we say that there is
some miraculous ghost or thing inside the clock, which enables the clock to
perform all these different functions. Would anyone blindly believe?
Once, say fifty years back, a villager came to our shop. He looked at the
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 82

big clock. He saw the pendulam oscillating. He heard the ringing sound. He
was surprised. He enquired as to where the man was who moved the
pendulam? He wanted to know where the man was ringing the clock and
producing sound. I jocularly remarked that there were men standing on the
other side of the wall doing all these things. He believed what I said and
began to flatter me. “You are a lord! A big Maharaja! You can afford to have
any number of people”.
Why do I tell this about that villager? It is to make it clear that only those
who are in the stage of that villager would believe in gods, religions and soul.
There is no other concrete reason to believe them. You are able to see a lot of
machines doing wonderful things which a man cannot do. Yet the machines
do not have any ‘soul’ said to be the pride possession of man.
The Christian religion and the Islam religion do not speak of any soul.
‘Buddhists deny soul. Original Dravidians too did not have any belief in
‘soul’. Then how did it come to predominate over us now. Is there any
sensible reason for creating the fantastic imaginary thing? Is the meaning
given to soul convincing? The philosophy about soul is applicable only to a
particular religion. In other words without this soul, there is no Hindu
religion.
‘Soul’ is not true. It has been created only to protect a particular religion.
To hush up a lie, many lies are needed. Similarly to protect a false religion
and god, a false ‘soul’ has been created. To establish the baseless Hindu
philosophy, many baseless philosophies have been created as soul, heaven,
hell, fate and karma etc., by the Brahmins.
What do we see of a man? He is born. He grows. He does things
according to the abilities of his body and development. He dies. After death
he is either cremated or buried. He is no more in the world. This is what we
actually see in the life of a man. What is the need to believe blindly and
unnecessarily any other philosophy?
Why should the creator of the concept of soul, take so much pain? Soul is
said to be smaller than an atom. It is said to be a very minute and delicate
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 83

thing unperceivable. The work of the soul is said to take into account all the
thoughts and actions of an individual and assort the good separately and then
bless good things for the good deeds. Are you able to understand anything?
It is like saying that a man who is neither born nor found in any place is to
undergo unbelievable punishment for the misdeeds, which he has not done at
all. What do you understand by this comparison.
Supposing a watch does not show the correct time whose mistake is that?
It may be the man who made it. It may be the negligence of man who took
care of the watch. It may be the fault of the person who saw the time. Leaving
all these persons who have connection with the watch, if one is to throw the
blame on the ‘soul’ of the watch and further refuse to show or point out or
explain what the soul is and where the soul is, how could it be the right to
blame the soul for anything and impose punishments? Won’t you think it a
big fraud? Similarly, it is a bigger fraud to link the soul with the actions of a
man, and subject the soul for suffering any punishment.
What for is a soul for a man? What are the responsibilities and duties of
living beings? Take into consideration even the green vegetation – plants –
shrubs. Anything that is born goes out of existence. Observe anything born. It
lives for some time and dies ultimately. The life and action of the living
beings are based on the formations of the body and its nature. Living beings
whatever they be, are not directly responsible for their actions and ways of
life.
In man’s behaviour we consider some as good and some as bad. Why
should a soul be created to suffer for the needs and misdeeds? How do we
term certain action alone as good? Is there any universal standard or accepted
scale to measure the actions as good or bad. Then how to say that our souls
beget good things for good acts after death. How to believe that a soul
undergoes punishment for the bad acts after death? How fantastic all these
are! Please think over. Where is the proof for all these? How to believe in
‘soul’ and its work? How to believe that ‘soul’ attains ‘moksha’ (Release
from birth of worldly life) only on account of his good deeds? Is there any
one to prove it in any manner? So I think you now understand that the
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 84

philosophy about soul is false and absurd. Think in any manner, there is no
need for the creation of a soul.
In short, it is a castle built in the air.!
To identify one’s belongings, man has the convenience to call ‘mine’ ‘my
own’ and ‘belongs to me’. If he says, ‘My soul’ it is because he has that
facility to identify without knowing himself what his soul is. In fact, it is
meaningless to say ‘my soul’
See what life is. It is also a mere thought. In fact, there is nothing called
life. Some say life is soul. Others say soul is life. Some others say that life is
nothing. Some conceive life as something that functions independently.
LIFE
Life is not an object. If it is an object it can have movements. We can
compare it to a machine that works. By its movement other parts also
function. Similarly the function of life is to make all the parts of the body do
their respective work. If life is the energy needed for the people to do work, it
is the food we take that is most important for the body to exert itself.
Whatever be the formation of the body and its parts, there can be no function,
if people do not take food. So we may say that life is the result of food we
consume.
If there is any damage to the parts of the body, life is extinct. If there is no
food, life will be extinct. Movement of the body will stop. Where there is
movement we call him a man. He is said to have life. When the movements
stop man becomes a corpse. He is no more a man. What is meant by death? If
the body is unable to breathe in and breathe out from the lungs are said to
have lost their power. When the lungs fail to perform its duty, man is not able
to breathe.
Since man has this kind of life, he is able to express and point his own
belongings personally. The other living beings are also able to understand
about themselves.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 85

If you have a dog named ‘Rose’ it comes to you when it is called by
name. Many dogs do things as we like. They understand our orders and
carryout. Other living beings also understand their own belongings. They
know their nests, yards and young ones. If you ask a man as to what he
means by life or soul he is not able to explain. Why? Because it is not a
specific object or part of the body. He is unaware of the chemical reactions in
his body, which create the changes in him and make him feel different things.
If saffron is mixed with lime, red color is formed. Blue and yellow mixed
together becomes green. Oxygen and hydrogen become water. Similarly
poison is also a combination of certain elements. Some chemicals lead to
boiling. When boiled, certain things become hard. When heated certain things
evaporate.
So we find that by combination of certain things, various changes occur.
It is this natural law of change that our people call by names.
For example, you take a musical box, (record player). Simply by winding
the key, it is able to produce different songs and ragas. When we hear the
sound we are able to recognize the tunes, ragas etc. How do we decide? If it
is mere sound, we will take it as a natural sound. But the musical box
correctly produces the sound converted into a raga. You hear the Pallavi,
Anupallavi and Charanam of the songs. How is it? The musical box is set up
with such arrangements. Yet the box has not the feeling of self.
Similarly a man is able to speak, think, see, hear, command, laugh, cry,
sing, jump, quarrel, beat and invent, on account of the set up of the various
parts in his body. Such an arrangement found in the human body is able to
function together for various functions. If we understand this, we will refuse
to believe that life or soul is a separate object. It is merely a false notion and
blind belief.
If we probe further to find out the origin of ‘soul’ you will find, that it
was created by religion and the belief in god.
Generally soul is linked only to mankind and not to other living beings.
Vedantis who have mastered vedas also express that god, soul, life and other
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 86

living things are merely a feeling. That is the reason why philosophy is
deemed as equal to Vedanta. Generally the vedantis say that he who
understands himself first will be able to understand the Lord. What is meant
by such a saying? If a man realises what he means by his self understands his
ego he will realize what god is.
Man lives with desires. He is a slave to temptations. He must do good or
bad to others in the society. To emphasise the importance of doing things, the
creation of imaginary things as soul and life were created. To induce a man to
do good things only, he is made to believe that his soul will have to face
terrible punishments after death if he does bad deeds. It is also a mere myth.
Logically speaking a man who does not do anything good or bad need not
have any fear about god. He need not worry about heaven or hell.
Every living person is bound to do good deeds as well as bad deeds. So
long as he is alive, his actions, are bound to be based on the mode of
functioning of his parts of the body. His actions are bound to be either good
or bad. Moreover a deed that is considered as bad by some might be good for
others.
God, religion and soul were invented to regulate the life of man with a
good intention.
It is the selfish exploiting people who consider them as if really existing.
Before, concluding I wish to stress the importance of man leading an
unselfish life.
What all I express are my personal views. I don’t say that you should
believe what all I said.
It is for you to come to a wise judgement.
You please think over all these things.
Thank you all.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 87

MANU - DHARMAA CODE OF INJUSTICE TO
NON - BRAHMINS
Manu Dharma Sastra is the weapon of the highest casteBrahmins. It has
two main motives. First of all this enables the Brahmins to call themselves
most superior to other castes and lead a happy life without doing any manual
work. It has made the sons of the soil (Dravidians) as slaves to them forever.
The non-brahmins are deprived of their self-respect and decency. The second
motive is to render injustice to all Dravidians as stipulated in the Manu’s law.
When such an order is set up permanently, the organisations such as the
government, courts, constitutional acts etc., would naturally be dominated
and monopolised by the Brahmin commumity. Such an arrangement would
render all others as slaves for ever. This is the other motive of the Manu’s
code.
It was clearly ordained that Manu’s code or law should be strictly
followed for a period of three thousand years.
The Sudra (Dravidians) kings and other rulers took pride in proclaiming
that they ruled the people as laid down in the Manu law. Thus the Brahmins
sought the necessary safeguards to maintain the evil of casteism attached to
others by birth.
After the advent of the British rule, which succeeded the Tamil kings, the
Brahmins permitted only the Criminal Acts to be changed on the lines of
western countries. For all civil matters, Hindu law based on Manu’s code
alone was brought into force.
Can there be a law like Manu’s law that provides a very favourable
position only to one particular community? How could it be tolerated with
the authority of our own law of the land? How can we permit the courts and
judges to base their judgement on Manu’s code?
Is there a country where the people of the land are termed as the sons of
prostitutes? Is there a place where the toiling masses of the land are degraded
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 88

by others of alien countries? Can you find a government, legislations or
courts remaining a silent spectator to the injustice meted out to the majority
of the population? Can you see anywhere people being so docile and
negligent as here without trying to erase the disgrace? Nowhere else you can
find selfish vested interests as you see in Tamil Nadu!
It is for the Tamil society to think loftily. Our freedom and rights lie in the
eradication of disgrace attached to our births. So I humbly appeal to you all to
think over these monstracities. You will feel perturbed and agitated at the ill
treatment given to us by the Manu’s code.
Leave the aged and elderly people. The future is in the hands of the
younger generation. I have compiled this book with the hope that our
youngsters atleast would come forward to think on right lines and act with
wisdom.
The Origin of Manu’s Code:
Brahma has been attributed as the author of Manusmiriti. He made laws
and gave them to Brigu, a first saint. Later the law was handed over to
Maricha by Brigu.
Vol. 1-Sloka 58 (Manu Code).
Later on Manusmrithi (orthodox varnasrama dharma) was let known to all
the saints.
Brahma’s Conduct:
(1).According to a fable of Hindu religion Brahma acted as a priest to
officiate the marriage of god Paramasiva with Parvathi. When Parvathi went
round the sacred fire (omakundam) she held the end of the apron cloth with
her left hand before going round. It enabled Brahma to have a clear look at
the Parvathi’s thighs. On seeing the thighs, Brahma became a victim to lust.
Brahma’s semen poured out. Brahma left the semen in a vessel near the
sacred fire. Immediately Agasthiar was born.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 89

(2). When Parvathi came around the sacred fire again, Brahma once again
relished her thighs and he once again became a victim to lust and semen
poured out once again. This time he left the semen on the green plants,
creepers and trees. This time a number of saints (Rishis) were born in no
time. Of them Valkilliyathe was one.
(3). As Brahma left the place after the marriage, he once again secreted
the semen and dropped it on the ashes of a graveyard. Here also a Rakshasa
named Pooricharavanan was born.
(4) After this Brahma collected the bones in the burial ground and once
again secreted the semen and dropped it on the heap of the bones. Instantly a
brave and strong man called Salliyan was born.
(5) As he left the grave yard small quantity of semen was secreted and it
dropped on the ground. A Bird came there and consumed the semen of
Brahma. The bird became pregnant and gave birth to a man called Sakuni.
(6) Then god Brahma went to a tank. He dropped a little of his semen
there. A frog came and swallowed the semen of Brahma and the frog gave
birth to a female child called Mandothari.
(7) At last Brahma dropped the last remnants of his semen in a lotus
flower in a tank. The lotus flower became pregnant and gave birth to a female
child called Padma?
(8) On seeing his daughter Padma, Brahma was very much moved. He
looked at the beauty of his daughter. He wooed his daughter and wanted to
have intercourse. How could a daughter give consent to one’s own father?
Padma refused. Brahma did not give up his desire. He began to quote the
vedas to his daughter to make her realise that there is nothing wrong in
enjoying with anyone, anytime, anywhere for the sake of giving birth to a
child.
“Mathara Mupathya, susara Mupaithe, Puthrartheetha.
Sagamarthi, Napathra loka, nasthee thath.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 90

Saravam paravo vindu ha, dasmath Puthrar tham.
Matharam suransathee Rehathee”
This is the sanskrit sloka Brahma quoted to his daughter. He explained to
his daughter, that for the sake of a child one can enjoy with one’s own sister
or daughter, as per the authority of the sacred vedas composed by Brahmin
Scholar.
(9). Brahma managed to convince his daughter with the help of the veda
and enjoyed her. Brahma’s semen entered the womb of his daughter. But
somehow, for reasons not known he extracted his semen from the womb of
his daughter, with the help of his own penis.
(10) This behaviour of god Brahma and his lustful actions reached the
king of Devas-Devendran. He deputed Thilothama a dancing girl of
devalokam to dance. She danced in all the four directions and up above in the
sky. By this Brahma got five heads. He was much enamoured of the beauty
of Thilothama. Brahma followed Thilothama for her love. God Eswara
personally saw the madness of Brahma. So he cut away one of the heads of
Brahma.
(11) Then Brahma began to roam about in the forests. He happened to see
a female bear in a bush. Brahma would not leave it. He went straight to the
bush. The female bear yielded to Brahma. God Brahma enjoyed with the
bear, and a human being with the head of a bear was born. He is called Jambu
Vandan, the son of Brahma.
(12) The Brahma met Urvasi, a prostitute. He was much moved by her
beauty. He wooed her and made an agreement. Accordingly after enjoying
her, he left the semen extracted from the womb of his daughter padma and
left in the womb of Urvasi. The child born was named Vasistan. After
performing all these increditable acts, god Brahma transferred his powers to
Vasistan and went away to perform penance.
The origin and Birth of Munivars and Rishis who
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 91

created Vedas and Sastras
The birth of these Rishis is against the laws of nature, absurd and vulgar. I
give a few examples.
RISHIS BORN TO
1. Kalaikottur Rishi Deer
2. Kousik Kusam
3. Jambukar Jackal
4. Gouthamar Bull
5. Valmiki Hunter
6. Agasthiar Vessel
7. Vyasar Fisher woman
8. Vashistar Urvasi
9. Naradar Washer woman
10. Kadanasalliyar Widow
11. Madankar Cobbler woman
12. Mandaviyar Frog
13. Sankiar Pariah woman
14. Kangaeyar Ass
15. Sounagar Dog
16. Ganathar Owl
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 92

17. Sugar Parrot
18. Jambuvantar Bear
19. Aswathaman Horse
This is the greatness of the Hindu rishis and their births! I think the people
of the Barbarian era would at least be more intelligent than our Dravidian
people. The history of our forefathers and rishis is disgusting and demeaning.
They are responsible for our Dravidian degradation and disgrace. Now let us
pass on to other gods.
As per one Hindu mythology Mahavishnu and Parameswaran both males,
fall in love with each other, cohabit and produce a male child which is being
worshipped by the Hindu orthodox people even now, as Sastha or Iyappan or
Harihara Puthran.
Again it is stated clearly that Mahavishnu fell in love with another
Brahma rishi called Naradar and produced not one child but 60 babies. 60
years of the Hindus from Prabava, are named after the 60 children of Brahma.
These episodes do not stop with Mahavishnu. We are told of interesting
vulgarities about Mahavishnu’s wife called Mahalakshmi. It seems Lakshmi
saw a beautiful horse and instantly fell in love with the horse. Vishnu the
knower of all things came to know about this matter. He immediately
changed his wife Lakshmi, into a mare and he himself became a horse. Then
Vishnu and Lakshmi enjoyed. They did not give birth to a foal, but a human
being was born to them. He was named Eka Veeran.
Now let us take into consideration the truths said about the greatness of
Devendiren, the king of the devas. Once the king Devendiran happened to see
a lady named Parisadam, She was the dutiful wife of a rishi. He wanted to
have intercouse with her. He said that he had a great love for her. She replied
that she has neither love for Indiran nor could she betray her husband. Indiran
was frustrated. He was determined to achieve his object. Some time later the
rishi performed Aswamedha Yaga wherein his wife Parisadam had to insert
the penis of the horse into her womb, as a ritual.Indiran seized this as the best
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 93

opportunity. He somehow entered inside the male organ of the horse and
accomplished his long felt desire. Indiran spoilt Parisadam forcibly against
her wishes.
I have enlightened you with great restraint, the details regarding Brahma,
Rishis, Devas and their king to enable you to learn something about them as
is authoritatively stated in the Manu’s code.
Today our high courts are giving judgments based on the Hindu Law. As
the justice is given to all taking into consideration mainly what the Manu law,
rishis and devas have said sometime long ago, I am telling you all these
things for deep considerarion.
So far as the Hindus are concerned, where there is a problem to be
decided, the dharma sastras are deemed to be the main basic rock of
determination. Of all, the Manu code is the most important one.
The Privy Council has categorically stated about the Manu code thus:
“However obsolete and out of date it might be, judgment based on it are
final”. Not only this, the Constitution of India is also laid down according to
the Manu law.
The very fact that the measures taken by the Government of Tamilnadu to
enable all communities to do the job as priests in temples were nullified by
the Supreme Court of India clearly demonstrated that the Manu’s law is still
under full sway. The Act passed by the elected representatives of the people
in Tamilnadu Assembly has been set aside as derogatory and against Manu
law.
Now let us further see what are the laws contained in the Manu’s code
and how far they are just and fair. The Courts decide matters strictly
conforming to the laws laid down in the Manu’s code, forgetting the fact that
the Manu’s code is mainly intended to make a particular community
(Brahmins) prosperous.
Origin
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 94

Brahma is the creator of the Manu Dharma . Later it was strictly disclosed
by him to rishis.
Chap.1.S.59
Atheists
Vedas and Dharma Sastra should not be questioned or debated. He who
does so will be considered an atheist.
Chap.2.S.11
Such an atheist who blames the vedas will be considered as accuser of
god.
Chap.2.S.11
Brahmins should not disclose this Manu Dharma Sastra to any other
people.
Chap.1.S.103
A King’s duty is to excommunicate the gamblers, actors, musicians, bad
elements, those who defy the vedas and rituals, those who change their
trades, and those who are found to consume intoxicating drinks.
Chap.9 S.226
ivision By Birth
To Safeguard the world, Brahma, created the Brahmins, Kshatriyas,
Vaisyas, and Sudras from his face, shoulders, thighs, and feet respectively
and evolved different duties and responsibilities for each section separately.
Chap.1.S.87
Because a Brahmin is born in the face of Brahma, because he is born of
the highest caste, he alone has the right to receive and enjoy the wealth and
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 95

property of all other castes and communities.
Chap.1.S.100
Pride in begging
Even if a Brahmin begs for alms and receives help he eats his own. He
wears his own clothes. He donates his own property. Others enjoy such
things only at the mercy of Brahmins.
Chap.1.S.101
Even if a Sudra were to do the work of a Brahmin, he will not become a
Brahmin, because he has no right to do the work of a Brahmin.
Even if a Brahmin were to do the work of a Sudra, a Brahmin will not
become a Sudra, because even if he does a low work, he belongs to the
highest caste.
Chap.10.S.73
Brahmins once Non-Vegetarians
All sorts of dishes as ‘Vadai’ Payasam and tasty flesh and sweet smelling
waters are for the Brahmins.
Chap.5.S.227
A Brahmin could eat any living being every day for the sake of his health.
There is no sin attached to brahmins eating the flesh of living beings.
Chap.5.S.30
Particulars are given in the Manu Sastra, to please the dead forefathers by
offering meat. Flesh of different birds and animals
were also offered by Brahma to please God for different periods! Here are
the details:
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 96

1. Paddy, rice, water, black gram, roots and fruits satisfy the dead for one
month.
2. Fishes please the dead for two months.
3. Stag’s flesh pleases the dead for 3 months.
4. Goat’s flesh pleases the dead for 4 months.
5. Bird’s flesh pleases the dead for 5 months.
6. Whitegoat’s flesh pleases the dead for 6 months.
7. Reindeer’s flesh pleases the dead for 7 months.
8. Black stag’s flesh pleases the dead for 8 months.
9. Kalaiman flesh pleases the dead for 9 months.
10. Flesh of Porcupine, pig, bison, pleases the dead for 10 months.
11. Flesh of rabbit, tortoise pleases the dead for 11 Months.
12. Cow’s milk, curd, ghee, pleases the dead for 1 year.
13. A male goat’s flesh pleases the dead for 12 years.
14. With vegetables grown in the season, a fish variety ‘Valai’, flesh of a
red coloured lamb, rice grown in forest lands, please the dead eternally.
In the month of ‘Purattasi’ after the full moon on the 13th day, if honey,
and Payasam are offered to the dead, that offering gives them full
satisfaction.
Chap.3.S.267 to 273
If the Brahmin refuses to eat the flesh offered at the ceremonies he will be
born as a cow 21 times.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 97

Chap.5.S.35
A Sudra should be away from the house on the day of the perfomance of
the ceremonies.
Chap.3.S.242
Christening
Good and auspicious names should be given to the Brahmins only.
Kshatriyas should be given names connoting braveness and valour. Vaisya’s
name should be based on articles.
Sudras alone should be given names meaning disgrace and degradation.
Furher the word ‘Dasan’ should be the suffix for all the sudra names.
Chap.2.S.31 and 32
A brahmin’s ‘Poonul’ (Thread) should be made of cotton. Khatriyas
Poonul should be made 3 of Janappa threads. Vaisyas Poonul should be made
of goat’s hair.
Chap.2.S.44
Pigs and Sudras
Any eatable article becomes polluted and unfit for consumption when:
1. A pig dashes against
2. Hens and cock fly over
3. When a dog looks at
4. When a Sudra touches.
Chap.3.S.241
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 98

Any one, who offers anything eatable to a Sudra after the ceremony will
go to hell. Such a fool will be punished there. He will have to live there
upside down.
Chap.3.S.249
If the Brahmins happen to eat anything that has been tasted or touched by
a Sudra, that Brahmin should have intercourse with his
wife that night and the dead will live in the motion of the wife for a
month.
Chap.3.S.250
There are seven varieties of Sudras.
1. He who retreats in a war.
2. A prisoner in a war.
3. One who serves a Brahmin out of devotion.
4. Son of a prostitute.
5. One who is purchased.
6. One who is adopted.
7. One who is a traditional worker.
Chap.8.S.415
uties of the Sudra
A Sudra worships a Brahmin either for salvation or for his livelihood. It
will be a good thing for him if he calls all others inferior to Brahmins.
Chap.10.S.122
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 99

As the Kshatriyas have failed to perform rituals and as they neglected to
worship the Brahmins, they are becoming Sudras.
Chap.10.S.43
In any congregation, the Brahmin alone should eat first. If there is balance
of food, that alone should be given to others. New clothes should be worn by
Brahmins only and when they become old and torn they should be given to
others. A Sudra is entitled to receive only these.
Chap.8.S.125
It is the duty of the king to order the Sudra to serve the Brahnins. If the
Sudra refuses he should be punished and forced.
Chap.10.S.235
A Brahmin could extract work from the Sudra paying or without paying.
Brahma has created the Sudra only to work for the Brahmins.
Chap.8.S.413
It is the main duty of the Sudra to serve the other communities without
jealousy. For his service he may get wages.
Chap.1.S.91
Exploitation
The wealth of the Sudra who does not perform Yagna is to be deemed as
the property of the Asuras. So his wealth could be plundered...
Chap.7.S.248
The wealth of the Sudra could be forcibly plundered. No consent is
needed. There need not be any hesitation.
Chap.11.S.13
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 100

Even if a Sudra is in a position to earn, he should not earn anything more
than what is needed to his family. If any Sudra does so, he may go against the
Brahmins and be tortured.
Chap.10.S.129
Punishment to sudrasIf a Sudra talks ill of a Brahmin his tongue should be
cut off.
Chap.8.S.270
If a Sudra pronounces the name of a Brahmin or talks of his caste or
accuses him, an iron rod ten inches long should be heated red-hot and thrust
into the mouth of the Sudra.
Chap.8.S.271
If the Sudra dictates the Brahmin to do a particular thing, boiled oil
should be poured into the mouth and ears of the Sudra.
Chap.8.S.272
If the Sudra hits at the Brahmin’s hair, beard, legs, neck, penis, his hands
must be cut off.
Chap.8.S.283
If the Sudra sits in a seat along with a Brahmin, his hips should be
scorched or he should be driven away from the town.
Chap.8.S.281
If the Sudra attacks a Brahmin with hands or with a stick the part affected
should be noted and the Sudra should be beaten severely at the same part of
his body. His hand should be cut off, if he had used his hands. His legs
should be cut off, if he had used his leg.
Chap.9.S.224,248
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 101

If the Sudra takes away anything belonging to the Brahmin he should be
tortured and killed.
Chap.9.S.248
If a Sudra leaves his trade and seeks the trade of others, the king should
confiscate his property and excommunicate him.
Chap.10.S.96
If a Non-Brahmin enjoys with a Brahmin wife, he should be punished till
he breathes his last.
Chap.8.S.359
If a Sudra enjoys a Brahmin girl without protection, his male organ must
be cut off. If he enjoys a Brahmin girl in a family, his body must be cut to
pieces and his property should be confiscated.
Chap.8.S.374
For eliciting truth and for taking a promise, the Suddra should be made to
hold a hot iron or be immersed under water.
Chap8.S.114
If the sudra’s hands are not scorched, and if he does not die in the water
then only the words of the Sudra could be taken as true.
Chap.8.S.115
A country, where the Sudras have no other work than being slaves, is the
only right place where the Brahmin can live.
Chap.2.S.24
A Brahmin should not live in a place, where the Sudra is ruling. A
Brahmin should not live in a place near the abode of the chandalas.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 102

Chap.4.S.61
No right to the Sudras
A Sudra should not be taught the sastras. Brahmin should not give food to
anyone other than his disciples or followers. Offerings of the ‘Homa’ should
not be given to any Sudra. Brahmins should not go for performing rites or
pooja to anyone who boycotted the Brahmins.
Chap.4.S.80
The dead body of the Sudra should be taken by the south direction. The
dead body of the Kshatriya should go by north. The dead body of the Vaisya
should go by the west. The dead body of the Brahmins should alone go by the
east.
Chap.5.D.92
Brahmin rule
A king should receive preachers of the vedas and the sastras and all
Brahmins. Every morning he must meet their demands and rule the country
as dictated by the Brahmins.
Chap.7.S.37
A country ruled by a king will be ruined, if the vedic scholars and the
Brahmins are made to suffer for food.
Chap.7.S.134
If a king does not rule the country as is stated in the Manu’s code,
(Varnasrama Dharma) the ministers and others should kill the king.
Chap.7.S.26
A Sudra should be suppressed by the Brahmin without minding the
powers of the king. If the varnadharma is dishonoured by a king, the
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 103

Brahmins should take up the weapons and fight.
Chap.8.S.348
A country, where a Sudra administers justice, will undergo sufferings as a
cow caught in the marshy pond.
Chap.8.S.21
Share in the treasure
If a king finds a treasure in his country he should first give half of the
treasure to the Brahmins and take the other half only to his treasury.
Chap8.S.38
Hanging
Punishment by hanging is not applicable to the Brahmin.
Instead of hanging it is enough if his head is shaved. Others could be
hanged...
Chap8.S.379
A Brahmin and a snake should not be heckled, even if weak in health.
Chap.4.S.135,136
Even if the Brahmin commits a very serious offence, he should not be
tortured or hung. He should be sent away with his belongings.
Chap.8.S.380
Women
Bed, seat, beauty, pregnancy, anger, lie, betrayal etc. were created only
for the sake of woman.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 104

Chap.9.S.17
If a family suffers on account of not having a child the woman could
obtain the consent of the father-in-law and the husband and have intercourse
with the brothers-in-law and the close relatives of the husband and give birth
to children.
Chap.9.S.59
Even if one’s husband has bad character, bad behaviour, illicit
relationship with other women, a woman should worship her Brahmin
husband as god.
Chap.5.S.154
A woman should obey the father as an infant, obey the husband in her
youth or and obey the children when widowed. A woman cannot at any time
exercise her will independently.
Chap.5.S.148
It is no sin to kill any woman or any Non-Brahmin.
Chap.11.S.65
No king has powers to impose excessive taxes, even when it is necessary.
It will anger the Brahmins. If the Brahmins are infuriated, they will curse and
the kingdom will be ruined.
Chap.9.S.313
Fire burns the dead body in the grave, The fire in the ‘homa’ does good.
Similarly, even if any Brahmin indulges in a bad act, he should be
worshipped. He is superior to all.
Chap.9.S.318,319.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 105

UNTOUCHABILITY
History of Vaikom Agitation
Speech delivered by Periyar in the Kanyakumari District tour, on
25th and 26th Dec.1958
(Vide: ‘Viduthalai’ 8.1.1959 and 9.1.1959)
Note on Vaikom
[Vaikom is a beauriful small town in the Kerala State. Formerly, it was
under the Travancore State, ruled by Kings.
Till 1924, the “low caste” men were not allowed to walk in the streets,
near the temple as they would “pollute” it by the their walking according to
the evil caste - system of Brahmins!
Thanthai Periyar E.V.Ramasami, the fighter for human rights, and
eradication of Untouchability, participated in the agitation to throw open the
streets for “ low caste” Ezhavas, organised by George Joseph and others. He
courted imprisonment twice and won their rights.
Fittingly Periyar is called the “Hero of Vaikom”.]
Periyar recalls his experiences in the year 1958 at a public meeting in
Kannyakumari District.
Respectful President,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
I was extended an invitation to come over to the Kanyakumari District
many times by your comrades. As I was busily touring in other districts, I
could not come earlier. Wherever I toured, I found a great awakening. People
gathered in thousands.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 106

Ten years ago, I addressed a meeting here in Marthandam. In those days
you were citizens of a Native State. You were ruled by a Rajah, whereas we
were citizens of the British Government. Yet we are all “Sudras.” (Heirs of
prostitutes). We Dravidians were subjected to humiliation by the Brahmins. It
was the outcome of the hoax played on us, we continue to be “Sudras”.
Today,we are citizens of one country. We are Tamilians of Tamilnadu.
We are today brought together. Our unity is strengthened. We are today
linked as one family because we are all, now citizens of one country. We
have to work together for achieving our ideals as we are all classified under
one caste. So far as I am concerned, I led the agitation even some 35 years
ago in Tamilnadu to eradicate the social evils particularly the hateful
‘untouchability’. For over thousand years we were not allowed to enter some
of the public roads. Those who are now aged atleast 50 years may recollect
those days. Youngsters of this generation may not know these things of the
past.
If there had not been the agitation in those days, today many of us would
not have the right to pass through many of the roads. In those days conditions
were very bad in this country. The Government was in the hands of the
orthodox Brahmins. The Varnashrama Dharma was in its full sway. In our
country, the advent of the Non-Brahmin Movement, redeemed a number of
rights to the Non-Brahmins. The Non-Brahmin Movement successfully
combated the Brahmin domination.That Non-Brahmin Movement was
popularly known as the Justice Party; named after its journal ‘Justice’.
The Brahmins too had their own organisations as Brahmana Samajam,
and Brahmana Mahasabha. They worked against our interests and stood in
the way of our attaining many of our legitimate rights. Brahmins were proud
of calling themselves as ‘Highest caste’. They insisted on calling themselves
as ‘Brahmins’. Manu law and other sastras too termed us as ‘Sudras’ only.
What an amount of humiliation and degradation we were subjected to!
If we do not opt for the name of Dravidar Kazhagam or Tamilar
Kazhagam, we have to choose only ‘Sudra’ Kazhagam, as the suitable name
for our organisation.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 107

That is why, we had to change the name of the South Indian Liberal
Federation latter called as the Justice Party, as the Dravidar Kazhagam, to
make ourselves known to the world as to who we are. The Dravidians are
people of a proud nation, known to the world.
On account of the efforts taken by the Non-Brahmin Movement (Justice
Party) in the years 1919 and 1920 and the agitations in Tamilnadu, the right
to make use of all roads irrespective of castes was got, not only in Tamilnadu
but also in Andhra, Karnataka and Kerala.
With the powers vested in the hands of the Justice Party Government, the
right to make use of all roads by all castes was brought into practice.
The Justice Party Government brought in a legislation even in those days
permitting the so called low-caste people to make use of water from the
wells, which had all along been exclusively reserved only for the use of the
Brahmins.
These are all things which took place before the days of Gandhiji. It is
absurd and fraudulent to say that it is only Gandhi, who did all these things.
Not only this. The Justice party people were the first people to pave the way
for all castes to enter the Panchayats, Municipalities, Taluk Boards, District
Boards and Legislative bodies even before the coming of Gandhi. They
nominated the representatives of the so called low caste people (the
Untouchables) called as ‘Pariahs’ to enter the legislatures on a par with the so
called high caste Brahmins. ‘Chakkilis’, ‘Pallars’, were members of the
legislature. l want you all to clearly understand this truth.
As a matter of fact, Gandhi’s plans were different. He was not for
allowing all the Sudras and the Untouchables to bale out water from wells
and tanks, along with high caste Brahmins. He was not for permitting the
Untouchables to enter the temples along with the high caste people.
Originally, he only insisted on the continuance of certain rights exclusively
for the highest caste. He upheld the Manu code. He was for separate temples,
tanks, wells and dwellings for the highest caste Brahmins and the low-caste
Sudras. That was the original plan of Gandhi. I know it. Let anyone deny.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 108

Today, false propaganda is carried on about Gandhi. Much is said about
Gandhian way and Gandhian path.
I was the Secretary of the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee. A sum of
Rs.48,000 was sent to Tamilnadu as grant from the All India Congress
Committee, to construct separate schools and temples for the low-caste
Sudras called as the ‘Pariahs’, Chakkilis, and Pallars. It was strictly ordered
that these Untouchables should not go and create trouble at the places
exclusively used by the highest caste Hindus.
By that time the Justice Party Government had already passed orders
permitting all castes to study in all schools irrespective of their castes. They
made all to study together. Caste restrictions were removed in the field of
education long ago. This Reform was strictly enforced. There was a law
compelling even private institutions to admit a certain percentage of ‘Sudras’
in their schools failing which, such schools would not be eligible for any
Government grant.
At the time of inspection, the officer would put the question, “How many
Untouchables are studying in this insitution? If anyone should say that no
Untouchable approached seeking admission, the officer would say “In that
case you have got to go and get some Untouchables to study in your school.”
I am telling of the conditions that prevailed in our State even before Gandhi
came.
When Tamilians were so much progressive, in your Kanyakumari District
things were very bad. The highest caste Hindus did not even tolerate the right
of low caste Untouchable Hindus. Even his shadow should not fall on the so
called highest castes. That was the horrible tragedy in your place. The low
caste Sudras were to raise a cry from his hiding place to reveal his presence.
It is on account of the laudable services of Thiru.Swami Narayana Guru that
the low caste Sudras were awakened. The Vaikom Agitation changed the
conditions. The Untouchables here gained a lot. These things may not be
known to the youngsters here.
We waged the battle at Vaikom against untouchability. We were
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 109

imprisoned many times. We were severely beaten. We had to make sacrifice
to eradicate untouchability.
There were no classes in jail in those days. The treatment was very
bad.We had to bear all these to eradicate untouchability and bring in a new
change. How did this change come in? What is our present position? If you
think over and search for a better position, you will in fact agree that we are
very slow in eradicating casteism and its evils. We must muster strength and
march on with a greater speed.
You must know the history of the Vaikom agitation. A very small
incident led to the Vaikom agitation.
Com. Madhavan was an advocate. He was to appear before the
honourable judge in a case on behalf of his client. The court was in the
compound of the Maharaja’s (Emperor’s) palace. At that time, arrangements
were made to celebrate the birthday of Rajah (the King). The entire
surrounding of the palace was thatched with Palmyrah leaves beautifully.
Brahmins started chanting mantras (hymns). As com.Madhavan belonged to
the ‘Ezhava’ (Nadar) community, he was not permitted to enter or pass
through the place and reach the court.
It was at this time that the Justice party was carrying on propaganda in
Tamil Nadu for the abolition of castes and untouchability. Inter-caste
marriages were encouraged. Schools were thrown open to all. ‘Samabandi
Bojanam’ (Inter-dining) was popular. Such intensive social reform
propaganda was carried on in Tamil Nadu by the Justice Party. When Gandhi
came to know of what the Justice Party was doing in Tamilnadu, he started
including our schemes in his constructive programme.
In those days, the Justicites boldly exposed the Brahmins, who were
afraid to move about without company. Non-Brahmin leaders like Dr. C.
Natesan (Mudaliar), Dr.T.M.Nair and Sir P.Theagarayar educated the masses
by their incessant and extensive propaganda and secured the powers in the
State. Brahmins were envious of the Justice Party Government. They had no
platform in those days. In those days, the Brahmins cunningly took shelter
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 110

under the slogans- ‘We are not power mongers. We boycott the elections’.
With such false slogans they hoodwinked the people and indulged in all sorts
of intrigues. Realising the popularity of the Justice Party, Gandhiji
concentrated on the problem of untouchability, as the only way to bring down
the Justice Party rule in Tamil Nadu.
In those days I was very familiar to the leaders of the Justice Party. They
had great respect for me, because I held many posts. Mr.Rajagopalachari met
me and induced me to become a follower of Gandhi. He said that Gandhi
alone is capable of carrying out the much needed social reforms. I resigned
the post as chairman of Erode Municipality and joined the Congress. Before
my entering the congress, no Tamilian had the honour of becoming the
Secretary or President of the Tamil Nadu Congress. I was the first Tamilian
to hold these posts in the history of Tamilnadu Congress.
Com.T.V.Kalyanasundaram (Thiru Vi.Ka) was a school master.
Dr.P.Varadarajalu (Naidu) was the editor of ‘Prapancha Mitran’. Yet
Brahmins did not trust him. Com.V.O. Chidambaram (Pillai) was at the
mercy of Mr.Kasturi Ranga Iyengar, after draining all his resources.
So, the Brahmins did not respect them. They could not ignore me like
that, as I already held high posts and hailed from a very big business
community. For anything and everything Mr. Rajagopalachari (Rajaji)
believed me and reposed much confidence in me. I also believed him and
reciprocated the confidence he held in me. We both worked together and I
carried on an intensive propaganda with the result the Brahmins once again
gained the platfrom. I was very bold in expressing the rationalist views. I
openly spoke on god in all my meetings stating, “If the idol would get
polluted by the touch of the people, such a god is not required and the idol
has to be broken to pieces and used for constructing good roads. Otherwise it
may be put near the river banks to be used for washing clothes”. I was often
induced to speak, severely by the Brahmins. As I was not for any post or
power, the Brahmins remained silent.
What all I say now about God, religion and caste, I used to say even in
those days. Rajagopalachari used to tell me that I have administered a very
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 111

strong dose, after hearing my speeches. I used to reply that so long as people
remain foolish, there is no use of our giving a light dose. On hearing me he
simply smiled. In these ways, we made the Brahmins come to power in those
days.
Leaders of the Ezhava community wanted to stage an agitation, when
Mr.Madhavan was prevented from entering the court. Mr.K.P.Kesava
Menon, President of the Kerala Congress Committee, T.K.Madhavan and
others took the lead. They decided to launch the protest on the day of the
prayers at the Raja’s palace. They chose Vaikom as the fit place for the
agitation. It is only in Vaikom you have a temple with four entrances on the
four sides, leading to four streets around the temple. That was really
convenient for the agitation. So they chose Vaikom as the place for the
agitation.
There was a law that the low caste Untouchables as ‘Avarnasthans’ and
‘Ayitak Karans’ should not enter those roads. If an Untouchable has to go to
the other side of the temple, he had to go two or three furlongs away from the
temple and walk about a mile to reach the otherside. Even the ‘Asaris’,
‘Vaniars’ and weavers were not allowed to enter the roads around this
temple. The same conditions were prevalent in other temples also.
Particularly at Suchindram, it was very strictly enforced.
Important government offices, courts and police station were by the side
of the Vaikom temple near the entrance. Even while transferring officials, no
Untouchable would be transferred to these offices as they were not permitted
to enter the roads around the temple. Even the coolies were debarred from
entering the roads to reach the shops.
As soon as the Vaikom agitation started, the Rajah ordered about 19
leaders including Advocate Madhavan, Barrister Kesava Mennon,
T.K.Madhavan, George Joseph, to be arrested. They were treated as special
prisoners. At that time, there was a European named Mr. Pitt as the I.G. of
Police, under the Rajah’s government . He ably managed the affairs of the
agitators. When all the 19 agitators were put in prison, the Vaikom agitation
actually fizzled out. At that time I received a letter form Mr. Kesava Manon
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 112

and Barrister George Joseph.
“You must come and give life to the agitation. Otherwise we will have no
other way except to tender an apology to the Rajah. In that case, we will not
lose anything, but, a noble cause would suffer. That is what actually worries
us. So please come immediately and take up the agitation”. This was what
was written in the letter. They themselves chose me and wrote the letter to me
because I was very vociferous in attacking the evil practice of untouchability
in those days. Moreover, I have established a good name not only as a fierce
propagandist but also as a successful agitator. When they sent the letter I was
on tour. The letter was redirected to me from Erode and it reached me at
Pannaipuram in the Madurai District. On receipt of the letter I cancelled my
tour and rushed up to Erode to proceed to Vaikom. I wrote a letter to
Rajagopalachari requesting him to act in my place as the President of
Tamilnadu Congress Committee. I pointed out the importance of the Vaikom
agitation in my letter. It was a good opportunity for me. So, I did not like to
miss it . I proceeded to Vaikom with two others.
Somehow the news spread that I would be coming to Vaikom to lead the
agitation . When I reached Vaikom by boat, the Police Commissioner and
Tahsildar greeted us.
We were informed that the Rajah instructed them to receive and make all
arrangements for our stay. I was really very much surprised. The Rajah was
so good to me because, he used to stay in our bungalow at Erode, while his
officials stayed in our choultry on his way to Delhi. That Rajah and his party
were always afforded a cordial treatment at Erode during their stay, before
boarding the train for Delhi. That might be the real cause for the unusual
treatment given to me at Vaikom. When the people of Vaikom came to know
of my relations with the Rajah and the officials, they were all very happy.
Even though Rajah treated me as a guest, I participated in a number of
meetings supporting the Vaikom agitation. I criticised the evil practice of
untouchability. l said that such a God that would feel polluted by the mere
touch of an Untouchable does not deserve to be at the temple. Such an idol
should be removed to be used for washing clothes. By my propaganda more
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 113

and more people were eager to join the agitation. More and more people
came forward from different places. It became a problem for the Rajah. Yet
he remained silent for five or six days. Many complained to him, about my
speeches. Rajah could not ignore any further. So, after ten days, he permitted
the police official to promulgate P.C.26 which is similar to that of Sec.144
here.
There was no other go for me than to defy the ban. Accordingly I defied
the ban and addressed a meeting and I was arrested. Mr.Ayyamuthu also
defied the ban along with me. He was also arrested. We were all sentenced to
undergo rigorous imprisonment for one month. I was put in Aruvikkutha jail.
It was after my imprisonment, my wife Nagammai and my sister
S.R.Kannammal and a few others carried on a state-wide propaganda. When I
was released, I once again resorted to the agitation.
When I was in prison the agitation gained momentum. Lot of people
volunteered to court imprisonment. Intensive propaganda induced the people
to encourage the Vaikom agitation. The enemies indulged in hooliganism.
Rowdy elements tried their best to create panic, but ended in failure. Even
those who were in foreign countries came to know of the atrocities
perpetrated here in the name of caste . They volunteered to send donations.
Daily, money orders poured in. A big pandal was raised to house the
volunteers. Daily, more than 300 people were provided with food. Many
planters sent vegetables and coconuts daily. They were pooled together, as
small hillocks. It looked like a marriage house.
At that time Mr.Rajagopalachari wrote a letter to me. “Why should you
leave our state and create trouble in another state ? It is wrong on your part to
do so. Please leave it and come over here to take up the charge from me.”
This was what was contained in the letter. Mr. Srinivasa lyengar came over
from Tamilnad to meet me. He also tendered the same advice as
Rajagopalachari. By that time more than1000 people were ready to
participate in the Vaikom agitation. There were big processions and
‘Bhajans’ daily everywhere. The agitation gained momentum.
The news reached Punjab. There Sami Sirathananda made an appeal. He
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 114

sent about thirty Punjabis to Vaikom. They offered 2000 rupees as donation
and consented to meet the catering expenses for the volunteers. Seeing this,
the Brahmins here sent communication to Gandhi. They accused the Sikhs of
provoking a war against Hinduism. Gandhi expressed his view. He said that
Muslims, Christians, Sikhs and others, who were non-Hindus should not
partake in the agitation. In response to his appeal, Muslims, Christians and
Sikhs withdrew from the agitation. Rajagopalachari wrote another letter to
Joseph George stating that it was wrong on his part to interfere with matters
pertaining to Hinduism. But Joseph George did not pay heed to
Rajagopalachari’s advice. He replied that he was prepared to face expulsion
from Congress. He strongly stated that he would not lose self-respect.
Mr.Sen, Dr.M.E.Naidu and other leaders stood strongly in support of the
agitation. But some people were afraid that Gandhi would write, condemning
the agitation and stop the donations. But at that time Sami Siratha Nanda
came to Vaikom and assured of financial support.
The Vaikom agitation was launched in spite of opposition by Gandhi. I
was once again arrested and sentenced for 6 months imprisonment. Some
Namboodri Brahmins and orthodox Hindus joined together and planned to
counter the Vaikom agitation through what was called enormous ‘Satru
Samhara Yagna’ (Bonfire prayers for killing the enemies). They spent money
and performed this pooja. I heard about this in prison. All of a sudden, one
night I heard the sound of gunshots. I enquired the warden, whether there was
any festival going on near the prison. He told me that the Raja passed away
and the gun shots are fired to indicate the loss. When I learnt that the Rajah
was dead, I had a melancholic feeling. Later I was glad, because the prayers
by the Brahmins and orthodox Hindus to destory their enemy had resulted in
the death of the Maharaja. Their prayers did not harm the Vaikom agitators.
The people were also happy. Subsequently we were all released on the
ceremony day of Maharaja. Our enemies also lost their tone and tenor.
Later, the Maharani (Queen) wanted to settle the problem by mutual talks.
She wanted to discuss the problem with me. But the Diwan of the State, who
was a Brahmin stood in the way of our talks and said that the Maharani
should not talk to me directly, So he wrote a letter to Rajagopalachari. Rajaji
knew that I would carry the laurels and earn the credit. So he cunningly
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 115

decided to make the Maharani talk to Gandhi. It is because of this trick
played by Rajaji, that Gandhi’s name was dragged in the history of Vaikom
agitation. I did not much mind as to who personally gained the name and
fame. I was not for any personal glorification. I only wanted the problem to
be solved successfully.
Gandhi came and had talks with the Maharani. Maharani consented to
throw open all the roads for the low-caste Sudras and Untouchables. But, she
expressed the fear that I would further continue the struggle seeking the right
for Untouchables to enter the temple. Gandhi came to the Travellers’
Bungalow, where I was staying and asked me to express my opinion. I said
“it is not a big thing to enable the Untouchables make use of the public roads!
Even though temple entry is not at present one of the ideals of Congress, so
far as I am concerned it is one of my main ideals. But, you may inform the
Maharani, that for the present I have no such idea to launch the campaign for
temple entry rights. Let things come to normal before I decide what to do”.
Gandhi informed the Rani and she proclaimed the right for all to make
use of all the roads around the temple. This is how the low caste Sudras and
Untouchables got the right to use all roads, like the highest caste Brahmins
and orthodox Hindus.
I was for some time the chairman of the Devasthana committee at Erode.’
When I was away, comrades. S. Gurusamy and Ponnambalan and Eswaran
induced two Adi-Dravida workers in my office, to wear the sacred ahses
(Viboothi) on their fore heads and took them inside the temple. Seeing them,
the Brahmins cried loudly that they had polluted the deity. They were locked
up inside and a case was instituted. They were punished in the District court.
But on hearing the appeal, the High Court released them as not guilty. That
was during the British rule.
But, it was only at Suchindrum that the first agitation for temple entry was
launched publicly. A Self-Respect Confernce was also conducted under my
presidentship. A number of resolutions were passed urging the abolition of
castes and ensuring rights for the Untouchables to enter the temples.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 116

Next, another Conference was held at Ernakulam. In that Conference a
resolution was passed condemning castes and urging Hindus to become
Muslims, as there are no castes in Islam. Some others recommended
Christianity through amendments. At last, the option was given to join any
one of the above two religions.
One day, in Allepey one of the converts to Islam (who was a Pulayar by
caste) went to purchase an article at a Nair shop. He was beaten up and it
developed into a serious clash between Hindus and Muslims. Such clashes
between Hindus and Muslims spread everywhere, The then Dewan, a
Brahmin Sir C.P.Ramasamy Iyer put down the agitation with an iron hand.
But the Rajah (King) was later informed that most of the low caste
Untouchables like ‘Ezhawas’ and ‘Pulayars’ are becoming Muslims. He was
also advised that there was no other go than to throw open all the temples for
all the Untouchables to save Hinduism from the peril. At that time there was
‘Yagna’ by Brahmins for his long life. More over it was a custom to do
something good to the people on his birthday. It is then that the Rajah chose
the right thing to do at the right time. He announced that on his birthday all
temples would be thrown open to all, including the low caste Hindus and
Untouchables. This is the history of the struggle. This is how the
Untouchables were given the rights to enter the temples.
It is only after all these that Rajagopalachary and Gandhi came forward to
speak of temple entry. It is quite absurd to say that these changes took place
because of Gandhi. As a matter of fact Gandhi has not done even a molecule
of service to the Untouchables. You will understand this well by reading
‘What Congress and Gandhi have done to Untouchables’, a book written by
Dr.B.R.Ambadkar.
When I was the Secretary of the Tamilnadu Congress Committee out of
the funds of the party Gurukulam (Free Students’ Hostel) was run at
Seranmadevi. As Secretary I consented to give Rs.10,000 and paid a part sum
of Rs,5000. One Brahmin named V.V.S Iyer took up the responsibility to run
the institution. In that Gurukulam, Brahmin boys were given special
preferential treatment. They were fed separately. The Non-Brahmin boys in
the Gurukula were fed outside. While ‘Uppuma’ was given to Brahmin boys,
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 117

only gruel was poured to Non-Brahmin boys. The son of Omandur
Ramasamy Reddiar (Former Chief Minister of Madras Province) told the
matters to me with tears. I complained to Mr. Rajagopalachari. When he
contacted V.V.S. Iyer, he neither denied the charges not repented. He stoutly
refused to give equal treatment to all. He said that he could not do anything
as it was an orthodox area. Then I said that I could give the balance amount
of Rs.5,000 only when the Gurukulam was reformed. He got wild. He curtly
asked me ‘Are you serving the nation?’ I curtly replied, ‘Is what you are
doing nationalism?’ This serious matter provoked me to start a party for the
non-Brahmins (Tamils).
Even now you can find only ‘Brahmins’ preparing food at Congress
congregations. Even in those days, we engaged the Virudunagar Nadars to
prepare food at the Justice Party Conferences and the Self-Respect
Conferences.
Why do I recollect all these past things? You should know that unless we
go on agitating like this, we cannot make the society progressive with
equality.
Moreover you should all know that neither Congress nor Gandhi has been
responsible for any of the social reforms, we have been able to witness.
Even today, we are the only people of Dravidar Kazhagam who boldly
ask why should the lazy Brahmins be considered as highest caste, while the
real tillers and toilers are considered as low castes. Why should we have a
god that degrades us as Sudras?
Today they have created all safeguards to casteism in the Constitution of
India. A brahmin from somewhere has the boldness to come over here, and
speak with temerity, tendering serious warnings. Why? Power is vested in his
hands.
id any one have the guts to question?
We are the only people who are free, frank and fearless.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 118

If we are termed as Sudras by Hinduism, what else can we do but, destroy
that Hindu religion? Our Dravidar Kazhagam is not a political organisation.
We do not contest elections. We do not seek votes. We are not for ruling
power. Others may hesitate to call a spade a spade. Power - seekers may coax
the innocent voters. They may hoodwink you for selfish gains. I am not for
dragging in Gandhi’s name to dupe you all for getting any post or power. I
am not for that disgraceful life.
We have not made public life a profession or business to eke out our
livelihood. Think over why? We eat our own food, spend our time, energies
to instil in you self-respect!
By 1958 you find that wisdom makes its sway all over the world. But still
here we are like barbarians. Our god, religion and sastras do not elevate us
from the plightful rot. Government is also in the hands of imprudent
barbarians. No one dares to question except us.
We are called Sudras (sons of prostitutes) by Brahmins. Why should our
sons be called sons of prostitutes? No one thinks of this disgrace. Those who
survive in politics do not care about it. They implicitly obey and submit to
what all the Brahmin says.
When I was leading the Vaikom agitation, Mr.Sathukkutti the son of
Nilamban Zamindar used to meet me often and discuss. He used to address
me as ‘Naicker samy’. Not only that. He used to talk high of his birth because
he was born to a Namboodri Brahmin. He would often tell me that I should
not consider him as one born to a Nayar. Yet he was a graduate B.A. Who is
there to condemn this mentality in our people?
Consider for a moment what these’ Azhwars’ have done. They attained
‘Moksha’ by prostituting their wives. This is revealed in the ‘Purana’- Baktha
Vijayam.
One ‘Sudra’, an Azhwar, gained a place in heaven by allowing his wife to
lead the life of a prostitute. The Nayanmars gave their wives to Brahmins.
Even to this day the orthodox people propagate these things without shame or
self-respect. When I point out these things, I am accused of talking
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 119

damagingly of puranas (Mythologies). Who else talks boldly of these? These
puranas ruin our morality. What else can we say?
Added to all these the Brahmins have stuck to the seats of government.
After India was freed from British Rule power has been transferred into the
hands of Brahmins. I blame Gandhi for that. A big conspiracy was hatched to
keep us eternally as ‘Sudras’. Today (1958) everything is in their hands.
Today the President is a Brahmin. The Vice President is a Brahmin. Premier
is a Brahmin. Deputy Premier is also a Brahmin. The speaker of the
Parliament is also a Brahmin. Added to all these if we plead for the
eradication of castes, they send us as the accused to jail for a period of three
years. Who worries about all these? Most of the luminaries in public life want
to safeguard the government, Casteism, sastras, puranas, religion and god.
They think that there is no other go for them to live.
No one who depends on votes and bribe will question the atrocities
perpetuated in the name of caste, god, religion and government.
Britishers at least considered us as men with equal rights. Today the
government is in the hands of Brahmins, who call us as sons of prostitutes
(Sudras). That is why they have easily found safeguards in the Constitution
itself. According to law those who demand castes to be abolished have to be
prepared to undergo imprisonment for three years.
This casteism is a chronic disease that has eaten our society for centuries.
What medicine we use for scabies and itches, cannot cure cancer. We have to
operate the body and remove the portion affected by cancer. Treatement will
be different for different diseases. According to Hindu law we are ‘ Sudras’
for more than 3000 years. We are sons of prostitutes for over 3000 years. Our
Constitution gives full protection to this evil.
We must root out this evil. We must be rid of this ridicule. It is indeed the
most difficult task. Unless you pour boiling water on the roots it will not die.
Unless we take severe steps we cannot eradicate castes.
Not only in TamilNadu, but even in the whole of India there is no force
that can raise a bold voice like us. Those who are after power will never
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 120

dream of raising any protest. It is only those who are dedicated to serve the
people sincerely and selflessly, can dare to risk their life even for the
eradication of the castes. What have those who entered the legislature done so
far? They cannot do anything? We can get posts by simply sending a
telegram. Yet we are not prepared.
A few days ago Nehru made a sickening note about the legislatures and
other elected bodies. He even threatened that he would retire and seek
renunciation. What happened? He silently gulped all his remarks and stuck to
power. It is all mere display of the old Gandhian tactics to gain popularity.
The Dravida Munnetra Kazhgam party people who were with us, condemned
the entry in the legislature, so long as they were in Dravidar Kazhagam. They
even wrote attacking the elected representatives and the legislative bodies.
Nay, even Nehru and Rajendraprasad of Congress party spoke against the
legislature. Because they have now the chances, they are quite eager to enter.
They forget their past. By hook or crook they want to adorn the legislatures.
They are prepared to sabotage and expose anybody. Somehow everyone
wants to come up in life. No one is worried about the age long insults heaped
on our Dravidian racial distinction.
The entire country is in the clutches of three ghosts and five diseases. To
believe in one thing, that is not really existing is defined as Ghost.
God - Caste - Democracy - are the three Ghosts.
Brahmins - Newspaper - Political parties- Legislatures - and Cinema are
the five diseases. These diseases are preying on the human body like Cancer,
Leprosy, and Malaria. If the society is to progress these things should be
fought tooth and nail and destroyed completely.
*~*~*
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 121

CALL TO Youths!
(Speech delivered by Thanthai Periyar E.V.Ramasami
at Trichy on 21-2-1943)
It is more than five or six months since I addressed ameeting. This is the
first meeting after my illness. During this period many events have taken
place. You may like to know my views on them.
I like to express my opinion on certain controversial issues. Moreover I
am held responsible for some of the latest developments.
Man cannot live as a jungle animal. He is a social being. He has to live
with others in the society. He has to serve the society. His foremost duty is to
make the society happy and prosperous. So my opinion is that a man who
does not serve the society is only an ordinary animal. Though self interest is
the trait of all living beings, welfare of the society is primarily the
indispensable trait of human beings.
It is only the human society which is aware of the interests of the society,
that is able to progress. In our country, it is only the Brahmins and the
Muslims who are vigilent to safeguard the interest of their own communities.
They are always worried about their own communities. They deem it as their
foremost duty. What do we find in our Dravidian society? We should only
say that we Dravidians do not think it our duty to look into the interests of
our society. Even the Adidravidas are disinterested in the welfare of their
society. Why is it so? It is because the Dravidians and even amongst the
Adidravidians one set of people do not dine with others. They are now
separated into innumerable castes unnecessarily. Even amongst the
Dravidians here we have countless castes. People of one caste do not dine
with those of other castes. They do not have one common policy or religion.
Those who have religious or caste feelings cannot be expected to have social
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 122

outlook and unity. You cannot expect them to have affinity towards their own
community. They live like animals without any sense of their racial affinity.
They are like barbarians. That is the reason why we still like to be called non-
Bramins or Tamils. We are not prepared to call ourselves Dravidians.
But the Anglo-Indians who are decendents of two nationalities, have unity
and separate identity. Brahmins call them selves as twice born (Dwijas). Yet
they are not willing to find out the real facts about their origin. Yet they have
unity amongst themselves. That is why they are considered great. Similarly if
we take the case of Muslims, who ever may join their religion, they are
united under the banner of religion. They have affinity as members of one
religion. They are very great in this respect. They will become greater. The
cause for it is their religious unity.
ravidians
But the case of Dravidians is different. They have numerous castes-
different beliefs- and several disparities.
They are not the least worried about their racism. They are slaves to other
races. That is the reason why the Dravidians and the Adi Dravidians are at the
mercy of Brahmins and the government. They cannot survive otherwise. It is
because of this evil the Dravidians and Adi Dravidians are unable to progress.
Let me cite an example to illustrate it further. I like to refer to the things
now happening. The Brahmins are creating as much trouble as they could
during this world war period. It is known to the government also. The
Muslims refused to extend any help to the British during this war-period.
What had befallen on them? The Viceroy’s executive committee voluntarily
offers all posts to them only. At the sametime the Dravidians and the Adi
Dravidas deem it their duty to help the British in this war against fascists. For
this they betray their own kith and kin and help the government in all ways.
Yet they are classified as the Sudra (Sons of prostitutes) community by the
government. Even the laws term them as Sudras. What is the reason for this?
It is on account of Brahmins and the British government. Are we to say that
we deserve only that much?
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 123

The government says that we, the Dravidians, are not fit to hold high
posts in the government. If it be so, we could not have extended
unconditional support to the British rulers during the War. Yet the rulers
ignore us and give their support to the Brahmins and the Muslims. What do
we understand? We must accept that we do not deserve high posts. Even
though the Brahmins are a neglible minority, the government is terribly afraid
of them. We are of a brute majority. Yet the government is least concerned
about us. They arrogantly think that we, Dravidians, cannot harm them the
least. That is why they cringe on the retired Brahmin officials and pensioners
to hold high posts as judges even after the expiry of their period of service.
Would they make us slaves to the highest caste Brahmins? Otherwise is there
any justification to make us as their slaves? We cannot blame the government
for these. It is not the fault of the government. Why do I say so? We are
cowards. We have no guts to threaten the government or compel it to yield to
our legitimate demand. It is our selfishness that is the root cause for our
betraying our society.
The way Out
We, the Dravidians, are not functioning as a sound body. Our
organisation is considered to be very weak. How could a party composed of
such people achieve success? How can we build a strong oraganistion with
such people? We must relieve the aged people. We must bid good bye to the
rich people in our organisation. The youths in our party should come forward
to agitate. Then only it is possible for the Dravidians and Adi Dravidians to
attain independence. It is the youths who could make the government yield to
their demands. For that lofty ideal, the present organisation dominated by the
rich and aged people will not suit. We need dictatorship. It is a useless farce
to talk of our being first rate democrats, intertwined as a party. A party with
dictatorial fervour could alone be fruitful. Today Russia and Germany are
wedded to dictatorship. That is why they are today very powerful forces.
Because England and America are democratic countries, they are today
struggling. What would have happened, if the dictatorial countries opposed
them?
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 124

Similarly the Congress and the Muslim League are parties wedded to
dictatorship. Other parties are democratic. The government is today crushing
the dictatorial organisation. They throw some crumbs to the top men of the
democratic organisation. Thus they make the democratic bodies powerless
and voiceless.
That is why I emphasize the need for the Tamils to rise up to the occasion.
The Tamils should be awake. They should assert themselves as one nation.
Under such a circumstance a dictator would come out of his own accord. It is
for this that we are today aiming at.
FASTING
The next important thing that attracts the attention of the general public is
the second world war. We are getting day by day good news. We are happy
and contented. So far as we are concerned we are prepared to make all
sacrifices. In fact we have already sacrificed a lot. As such we need not be
worried much about the war.
The other matter that is drawing the attention of the public is the fast by
Mr.M.K.Gandhi. His fasting is not a new experience. He has fasted many
times for a few days and after breaking the fast he has recouped good health.
He once underwent fast unto death and succeeded in his aim. This time his
fast is drawing more attention. The doctors are of the opinion that his
condition is bad. The British government is negligent. But I feel that this fast
is against our interests. That is the reason why the government is lethargic.
We are demanding the separation of Dravidanaadu. Mr.M.K.Gandhi is
against it. The government does not want to interfere. They want the matter
to be settled within ourselves. Mr.M.K.Gandhi says that the British should
‘Quit India’. His idea is to let us down afterwards. That is Mr.M.K.Gandhi’s
motive. It is for this that he is now fasting.
What are we to do? If others are concerned about us, we will be
concerned about them. It is reciprocal and quite natural.
We are today Sudras. We are degraded. We have no right to enter the
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 125

temples or eating at houses of Brahmins. We are considered as low
Untouchables. In the government we are given menial jobs. Those who
betray us are caressed by the government and the congress party. We remain
as downtrodden people today. We are being exploited by the Brahmins and
by the people of other states.
id Mr.M.K.Gandhi feel for a moment about our pitiable lot? Did he
express a word of sympathy? Now many people are worried about the fast by
Mr.M.K.Gandhi. Did any one of the them care to express sympathy towards
our cause? One will have to think over the after effects of his fasting. Could it
be said that our low status would be changed to a better status or equal status
with others? How to sympathise with Mr.M.K.Gandhi without considering all
these factors? His fasting is a mere farce. How to sympathise with
Mr.M.K.Gandhi?
Now an all party conference is convened. The convenors of the
conference have practically ignored us. They do not even think of us. Under
these conditions what help could we render to them? My friend Rajaji is the
man behind the screen for all these. Yet he is not at all worried about his own
state. Moreover the participating leaders of various parties were strictly
instructed not to talk about party politics. They were asked to speak only
about the release of Mr.M.K.Gandhi. How could any self-respecting person
agree to partake in the conference?
Those who exploit the name of Mr.M.K.Gahdhi for their own selfish ends
participated in the conference. They passed a resolution in favour of
Congress party. Only 200 delegates attended the conference. About 309
people attended as visitors.
Rajaji himself accepted that the conference was not largely attended. It
seems there were loud speaker arrangements also! They call it an All India
All party conference. There is no limit for their deceit and fraud. They say
that 100 telegrams were received from the south. Atleast 99 would be from
Brahmins. Newspapers in the hands of vested interests, being dominated by
Brahmins made a big fuss about the conference. None seemed to worry about
the people of South India. How is it right to decide the social, economic and
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 126

political problems of the people from the fasting of a single individual? Is it a
wise thing? Moreover it is mere barbarity to depend on fast to solve
problems. It is utterly barbarous to be afraid of one man fasting. If we are to
submit to this sort of threat, I do not know where it will lead us to.
HOOLIGANISM
The next item that drew the attention of the public is the enormous
country wide sabotage in consequent of 1942 ‘Quit India’ Movement. It is
somewhat losing vigour now. The Congress party is responsible for the heavy
damage caused to the public property. Yet they deny the fact. They say that
they have no hand in the countrywide sabotage. The Congress was speaking
very high of its policies. They said that they are just, peaceful, truthful and
non-violent. Today it is like devils quoting scriptures. Their actions belie
their words. The congress is today exposed in its true colours.
In order to escape punishments some of the Congress leaders declared
that they have no responsibility in the outbreak of riots, arson, loot and
sabotage. If they had not done like that the volunteers of the Congress would
have openly declared in the court that they alone are responsible for all these
acts of sabotage. But, at a few places the volunteers have boldly said that they
are responsible. They accepted that they only set fire. They felt sorry because
the fire did not spread widely. No national newspapers condemned.
Mr.M.K.Gandhi was aware of the sabotage all over the country. He did not
issue a single statement condemning the same. In fact he refused to do so. No
one else came forward to condemn.
The police raided a number of Congress offices and seized records, which
clearly revealed that it was the Congress that actually conspired. Some of the
Congress volunteers were arrested with such literature. The government
states that it is in possession of more evidence to prove that Congress alone
organised the sabotage. The government refuses to release them with the fear
that it may aggravate the situation, so it is distinctly clear that Congress
policy is towards violence, confusion and sabotage.
Who Suffers?
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 127

Is there any benifit to the people on account of all these irresponsible
violent activities? Such acts are condemnable as foolish. There was no loss to
the Britishers or to their property. There was no danger to their lives. Their
government is not affected. Then who are the losers? It is our people who lost
their precious lives. The people of India are the real losers. What will be the
fate of our society if power is transferred to the Congress?
The government arrested the leaders. It is a good thing. They took
immediate action to quell the Congress party activities. They deserve to be
congratulated.
So far as our state is concerned we must appreciate our people. They were
very wise. Even though the echelons in the government are Brahmins, the
Governor has cleverly acted with restraint and controlled the affairs. That is
why the sabotage was not fruitful. In other states the situation is quite
different. There you find people adoring Gandhi. The rich capitalists feel that
their profits would decrease in case the Congress is humbled. They give
funds liberally and encourage the Congress volunteers. I think such things
would soon end there also.
Students
The students are also creating troubles. I would only blame the teachers
for that. The teachers themselves encourage the students. North Indian money
is pouring in for creating indiscipline amongst the students. It is these two
factors which are responsible for the ruin of students. The teachers do not
take disciplinary action against the boisterous elements. They knowingly
allow the students to go to dogs. They know that the students’ education and
bright prospects are being jeopardised. Even in this the Brahmin students are
clever. They do not get involved in the agitations by students. What is the net
result? You find that the Non-Brahmin students alone are ruined.
Already our education system is in doldrums. The education imparted
today is not at all useful to the individual in his future life. The burden of the
parents to seek adequate resources to educate their children is increasing day
by day. It is becoming very costly to educate children. The parents who could
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 128

really afford to spend so much for education are scarce.
The Brahmin community is not worried about this, because they do not
care about self-respect. The religion gives them ample scope to exploit other
caste people. The government is also encouraging them. As a result of all
these advantages the Brahmin boys and girls are able to read well and get
through in the examination. Our Non-Brahmin students are easily
hoodwinked. They are easily tempted to create hooliganism in schools and
colleges.
Just imagine the difficulties undergone by parents in the non-Brahmin
communities. Tolerating their poverty and hunger, many parents save money
to educate their children. Some parents risk all their belongings. Some
parents part with their ancestoral property. Some parents borrow a lot of
money at high rate of interest to educate their children.
The children of such poor non-Brahmin parents have to realise their
duties and responsibilities in the schools and colleges. If they neglect their
studies and indulge in goondaism it is nothing but betraying their own poor
parents. Creating lawlessness and hooliganism is not at all a patriotic work.
Most of our non-Brahmin students are today negligent of their duties.
Foolishly they act and get ruined. The duty of the student is to learn.
Education should not be neglected at all. They may behave as they like after
their education is completed.
If the student thinks that education is not more important than
nationalism, he should express his will to his parents and get out of the school
or college to do things as he likes. That is what a decent and honest fellow
will do. Behaving in any other irresponsible way as a goonda is
condemnable. It is a mistake to talk of nationalism remaining in the classes as
a student. It is nothing but disgraceful. I like to stress all these particularly to
the Non-Brahmin students.
UNWISE LITERATURES
Another item that has attracted the attention of the people is the burning
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 129

of unwanted literature. I am held responsible for this. Why do the self
respectors do so? It is only to induce the Tamilians to boycott such books as
Manu Code which is responsible for the creation of belief in religion and god.
Ramayana is created as the story of a god. Periapuranam is also created like
that. They are propagated as the literatures of the Tamils. That is the reason
why we ask the Tamils to boycott such literatures. Burning campaign is only
a formal token of our protest. Many people have written letters to me
suggesting the burning of Hindu law also as it is based on the Manu’s code.
We are telling this for many years. Today we are ruled according to the
Manu’s Code only. We will do one by one. Let us first burn the three books
Manu’s Code, Ramayanam and Periapuranam. But the Tamil pundits and
Saivites amongst us are raising a cry against us (Self-Respect Movement
people).
Let us first of all try to know how these books are related to us. Then we
should know as to what is contained in them. Then we should find out
whether they are in any way helpful to us. We should know whether there is
any benefit to us by following the unwise ideas elaborated in these books. It
is only after closely scrutinising all these that we can talk about them.
These three books are not at all concerned about the Dravidian Tamils.
They are not helpful to us in any manner. If any Tamilian is of the opinion
that Manu’s Code should not be burnt, we will have to doubt about his very
birth. Ramayana is also like Manu’s code. Some pundits praise Kamba
Ramayana as a valuable literature. They are against burning. But the very
author of Ramayana does not call it a literature. Kambar himself says:
“At risk of the world speaking ill of me and my reputation getting spoiled,
what my work seeks to state is”
"ைவய� எ�ைன இகழ��, மா� என�� எ�த��, இ� இய��வ�
யாெதனி� ெபா�யி� ேக�வி. �லைமயிேனா�, �க� ெத�வமா� கவி
மா�சி ெதாிவி�கேவ."
He has emphatically stated that Ramayana is not a piece of literature.
He considers Ramayana merely as his masterpiece to establish his talents.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 130

There are others who state that Periya Puranam is history throwing a lot
of information about astronomy and geography. They are of the opinion that
it should not be burnt.
Ramayana and Kandapuranam were written with a competitive spirit.
Periapuranam was written to countaract the Bakthavijayam and Baktha
Leelamirtham. This is evident from a general reading of all these books.
The ideology of Ramayana and Kandapurana is the same. Rama was born
to destroy ‘Arakkars’ (Rakshasas). It is believed that Mahavishnu incarnated
as Rama. Similarly the Devas (gods) prayed to Paramasivan to destroy the
‘Asuras’ (Non-Brahmin Dravidians). Kandan was born to Paramasivan for
that purpose. Nothing is known about the birth and parentage of Sita, the wife
of Rama. Similarly nothing is known about the birth and parentage of Valli,
the wife of Kandan.
The birth of Rama is an absurdity. He was born to the Brahmins who
performed ‘Yaga’. The birth of Kandan is still worse. When the semon of
Paramasivan fell down, the earth was not able to bear it. So it was directed
towards sea. Kandan was born there. I am not telling this of my own accord.
It is Viswamitra who said all these. In the Ramayana as the Rakshasas were
being killed more and more Rakshasas are said to have been born newly.
Similarly it is stated in the Kandapurana that Asuras were beheaded. The
dead Asuras are said to have appeared with new lives. Like these you find
many similarities between Ramayana and Kandapurana. Looking into the
behaviour of the devotees of Saivism as well as Vaishnavism, we find them
to be of the same type, one copying the other.
In Saivism, we find a devotee called Tiruneelakandar, who was a potter.
Similarly in Vaishnavism we find a devotee called Gorakummbar. He was
also a potter. The stories of both the devotees are alike. Both of them were
not in terms with their wives. They did not oven speak to their wives. It is
Vishnu the god who brought in good terms between Gorakumbar and his
wife. It is Paramasivan who brought in good terms between Tiruneelakandar
and his wife.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 131

Even as Ramayana is considered to be an epic by Hindu Vaishnavites, the
Hindu Saivites consider Periyapuranam as their epic. One cannot easily state
that there is anything to be learnt by the people. Indiscipline, prostitution and
things devoid of self respect abound, in these epics.
If we are to accept them as divine literatures and talk in praise of these
epics and gods and religion, we will only be exhibiting our uncivilised
barbarous status in our life.
One devotee willingly offers his wife to a Brahmin. One devotee uses his
elbow to grind the Sandal wood. One devotee offers the hairs of his daughter
to a temple. What is the use of reading such things? It may justify the
offering of anything and everything to the highest caste Brahmins. These
stories serve the purpose of creating disharmony. You find the story of an
untouchable called Nandanar in Saivism. Similarly you find the story of an
untouchable called Sokkamela in Vaishnavism. Their stories are also similar.
They were admitted into the temple and given salvation by their respective
gods.
Vaishnavism permits even stealing and cheating in the name of god.
Tirumangai Alwar’s story vouchsafes it. Similarly the story of
Manickavasagar in Saivism approves stealing and cheating in the name of
god. Both of them were given salvation by their respective gods, for their
religious service by stealing and cheating. The Vaishnavite gods and Saivite
gods compete with one another in absurdities, foolishness, and barbarity.
They prescribed tests to their devotees thinking themselves to be very
intelligent. A false impression was created to make offerings ungrudgingly to
the so called holy Brahmins. One must be a fool to believe that these books
are helpful to the Hindu society. Similarly if the Tamil scholars and
enthusiasts champion the cause of these books and aspire to spread them, I
would only say that they are doing great disservice to the society of Tamils.
From the beginning to the end we do not find anything decent or justifiable in
the Ramayana. Every action of Rama is atrocious. How to worship him as
god? Could anyone boldly say as to how Ramayana is useful to the majority
of the people?
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 132

If it is to be considered as an epic or literature, should there be no rules to
govern it for giving such a status? Is there no limit for imagination? Would
any one agree to part away with his wife, just because a poet has excelled in
his imagination? How could anyone emulate the example set by the devotees.
Should not such men be beaten black and blue? The Tamil scholars and
pundits do not understand this simple matter. How could they command the
respect of the people? The saivite Tamil Pundits insist on safeguarding
Periyapuranam. They say that it contains historical and geographical truths
and also many astronomical facts.
We can easily get books on these vital subjects written by experts. There
are many cheap editions also written by research scholars. Ignoring this fact
what is the use of searching for rice in the Sahara desert, when you have
varieties of rice in abundance in the grocer’s shop?
There are plenty of story books in the market. Our people do not read
them. Why? It is because those stories are not religious. They are not stories
of divinity. They are not preaching religious sanctity. They do not disgrace
the Tamil community. Those books do not subjugate us as slaves. They are
not barbarous. That is the reason why we do not worry about anything else
except the religious books. The religion and god and the books concerned
about them should be destroyed completely. We must efface them out of
existence. We should not allow them to exist in any form. Only then we can
live with self respect. It is with this noble objective that we are for destroying
all the books, which are religious.
We are of the firm conviction that Tamils have no salvation with these
books. That is why we are for destroying them. We have not decided to do so
blindly. We are aware of the price we have to pay for it. Yet we are resolute
to sacrifice our utmost to destroy these books.
We are determined to face any serious consequence. We are ready to lose
our precious life. We are ready to undergo any difficulty for this. We are not
like others, who are foolish enough to be content with the blind support for
carrying on religious propaganda. We know that we can lead a carefree life
and attain fame easily. We have not succumbed to such an evil. We are self-
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 133

respectors. During the last 18 years, our speeches and actions are almost the
same. Those who have keenly observed us and followed our activities would
not find anything new. We are always wedded to one policy. Perhaps a few
may misconstrue our ideals. They may feel perturbed and get angry.
Any person who involves himself in public activities is bound to do
something which he sincerely feels as right and good. Atleast he must show
the right way for our ladies. Otherwise he must lose his life in either of the
ways. So far as we are concerned, we are aware of the fate of true reformists.
We know of the difficulties faced by the wisemen. We do know of what the
people then valued about their genuine services.
I do not want to mingle politics in our social matters. I am speaking here
as a reformist and not as a politician. I am not very much enamoured of
Swaraj (Freedom)? I do not attach much importance to it. My objective is
whether we want Swaraj or self-respect raj. Those who are really worried
about the present status of affairs of the Tamilians, would definitely feel that
these books are retrogative to our interest. True Tamils would deem these
books as poisonous. Now you people see what Mr. Maraimalai Adigal has
said. He is peerless amongst Tamil scholars. His views on Kamaba
Ramayana cannot be ignored. We have of course many differences of opinion
with him. Adigalar is praised today and held in high esteem by the Tamil
Scholars and pundits. See what he has written:
“Some of the Tamil poets were very much enamoured of the false
propaganda by the Aryans. So they have created Bharatham and Ramayanam
with all sorts of unbelievable things. They made their writings familiar
amongst the people who were adoring the Aryans”.
“Perum Devanar recreated Bharatham into Tamil and it has become
obsolete”.
“Bharatham is a bundle of unbelievable things. The ancient authors in
Tamil could not translate Ramayana written in the Aryan language as it was
fully dumped with absurdities”.
The Ramayanam written by the poet Kambar is an adoption of the
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 134

Ramayana written in the Aryan language Sanskrit. As there were many
unbelievable things in the writinga of Kamabar, the Tamil scholars of the
later ages were not able to reconcile with Kambar.
Because Kambar wrote a false story and as Kambar was accustomed to
the alien language and its culture, he has dared to adopt and strictly follow
the aliens and utter lies in his work.
Naturally the poets of the later ages, also stooped to deceive people. For
that sake they have translated and remade the works in Tamil. Thus they have
destroyed the ancient glory of the Tamils.
It is true that there are traces of literary brilliance in the translations.
Because they are built up on false premises from the beginning to the end,
people are confused. They are not able to distinguish between fact and
fiction.
There are splendid fictions in foreign languages, particularly in the
English language considered to be one of the civilised languages. There are
plenty of stories with falsehoods also. Those cock and bull stories are written
in the poetic form also. Such a literature is increasing enormously. But what
is the opinion of those learned scholars in the language? They specifically
point out that such stories are purely imaginary. The authors of these various
fictions declare that they are not true stories. They openly accept that such
stories are meant simply for reading and enjoying. So there is no harm in
reading them. Modern Tamil scholars, who have undrtaken the research have
arrived at definite conclusions. They say that the ancient literatue contains
cock and bull stores. They have listed out what is untrue and imaginary. They
say that they were written without any sense of rationalism.
It is a great blunder to project such stories as true. If people are made to
believe them blindly as true stories, it will result in under development of the
brain. Truth is always a truth. Falsehood could never last for long as truth.
That is why I say that it is a great blunder to believe these stories.
The Tamil pundits who uphold the imaginary literature as true have
forfeited their wisdom and sense of justice and fair play.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 135

In the debate on Kamba Ramayana held in the Law College, Madras, the
learned Tamil Scholar Mr.R.P.Sethupillai is reported to have stated that
Ravana the King of Ceylon was an Aryan. I read about it in the newspapers.
It is a known fact to the world that Ravana was all along referred to as the
Thennailangai Vendan (King of Ceylon).
Historians and research scholars have long ago found out the period in
which the Aryans came to India. They are of the opinion that the Dravidians
or Tamilians were the original inhabitants of India, particularly in the south.
There is no historical evidence to prove that an Aryan had ever ruled the
Tamils or Ceylon.
Just because Ravana is said to have mastered the Vedas and prayed Siva,
Mr.R.P.Sethupillai concludes that Ravana was an Aryan. He quotes Valmilki
for evidence. He knows pretty well that these facts were probed further by
research scholars or historians.
Both Valmiki and Kambar have attributed many qualities to Ravana.
It is said Ravana lived for three and a half crores of years. He is said to
hail from the ‘pulasthian’ class. He is said to have powers to carry the earth.
There are many such things said about him.
Even as all these were said about Ravana by Valmiki and Kambar, it was
also stated that he read the Vedas and spoke in the Northern Sanskrit
language. It is indeed a pity Mr. Sethupillai wants to establish things based
merely on what is written in the Puranas. He does not want to view things
with a research mind or rational out look. How is it possible for the Vedas to
spread in the South, even before the coming of
Rama? How is it possible for the northern language to come here?
Moreover if Ravana was an Aryan, where is the need for him to knock away
Sita. What made Rama to declare that he had come only to kill Ravana?
If we are to view these things, it is clear that Ravana was not at all an
Aryan.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 136

The speeches and behaviour of some of our Tamil scholars are
detrimental to our interests. They behave as though they are the enemies of
Tamils.
It is no pleasure for me to criticise our Tamil scholars. What else could I
do without criticising them for their unwise acts? It is for the people to judge
whether they are worthy of praise.
Aryans have written that Rama was an Aryan. They accept that it is the
story of Aryans. They say that it was written to make Rama a god. Later our
Tamil writers adopted all these and attributed more and more wonderful
qualities to Rama. They exerted much to uphold Ramayana. They champion
the absurdities in them and propagate them as unadulterated truths.
How are we to consider such people as great or honest or honourable?
How could they be considered as patriotic people?
Have you ever seen the Aryans translating any of our Tamil books? Do
they atleast praise any Tamil book? Please think over why they are like that?
How should we be? Should we not have self-respect? Why should our
Ravana be depicted for ever as low and bad?
Hate aryan literatures
It is because of these Puranas (Mythologies) and lthihasas (Epics) that we
are made slaves to the Aryans. The Muslims and Christians today are not
slaves to the Aryans. Why is it? Is it not because they hate these books? This
is the historic fact. We see people talk ill of Aryans and Aryanism. But how
many people are really against Aryans in their life? We are not practical and
we do not put into practice what all we say. Our attitude towards Ramayana,
Periyapurana itself is an indication of our slavish character. I would only say
that we are not really sincere to our own Dravidian culture and Tamil
language.
Atleast we can trace some evidence for Ramayana. Historians speak about
Aryans, their civilisation and their migration to India as nomads. Similarly
the historians have recorded facts about Dravidians and their civilisation. But
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 137

it is not so with Periapuranam and the stories contained in it.
Periya Puranam
"Some one sang a ballad!
It is god who commenced it!
There was a glow of light!
The reflection in the mirror
Came out as a real man!
A child aged only three years began to sing!
A rock floated in the water!
Fever was cured with mere ashes!
The door opened wide of its own accord!
Foxes became horses!
Out of mere bones, a girl was created!
A boy swallowed by a crocodile became alive and came out!"
All sorts of absurdities like these are found in the Periyapuranam. What is
there great in Kandapuranam?
In the very opening stanza itself reference is made only to the Brahmin
priest in the temple of Thillai (Chidambaram). The Saivite Pundits condemn
other puranas. They decry them as absurd. What about their own
Periyapuranam? Even as drunkards decry others as intoxicated and order for
drinks. These Saivite Pundits behave as though absurdities are not seen in
their literature. Don’t we see in them the qualities of Aryans.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 138

In Christianity you do not find more and more absurdities. There are two
or three things which cannot be believed. A virgin girl begets a child! A small
piece of bread multiplies miraculously to feed the hungry thousands! The
dead are brought back to life. Even these few unbelievable things are not
tolerated in the western countries.
There is opposition to the Bible. Many controversies are going on. The
number of people who disown religion goes on increasing. Here, such
absurdities are found in abundance. If we take any thing we find it
unbelievable. Many things are irrational, illogical and not acceptable to
reason. Such being the case how long could our god, religion and puranas
exist intact? We can understand if the ordinary ignorant people alone believe
them, but we see even learned scholars revere the puranas and show respect
to them. How are we to tolerate this tragedy?
So I appeal to the Tamilian youths. Do not rest on your oars till the false
prestige attached to these books are nullified. What ever ordeals you may
have to face, be bold to disown them. These books are white ants to your
brain. If you youngsters resolve to do away with such a senseless, pernicious
and unwanted literature, you will be doing a great service to Tamilnadu and
the Tamilians.
Cinema
Even as we have got to set fire to some of the Shastras, Puranas and
lthihasas there is another important work to do. It is to fight against the
atrocities in the Cinema field. The reasons we attribute to burn some of the
books are also applicable to the Cinemas. What ever is preached in the books
are propagated in the Cinema.
We see the old order changing and yielding place to the new in many
fields. This is what we see in the world. But here we find new things and
changes are cleverly suppressed. The old are considered as precious gold in
the film industry. Our Cinema is mostly based on blind beliefs, foolishness
and barbarities. Neither the actors nor the producers think about the interests
of the cine goers.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 139

A prostitute or a thief does not think about the interests of the general
public. The actors and producers are also like that. Their actions are generally
against the interests of the society. By hook or by crook they want to
safeguard their personal interests. By hook or crook they want to live happily.
Such anti-social elements are now becoming very scarce in western
countries. But here their number is increasing.
uring the anti-Hindi agitation more than 1500 volunteers including ladies
courted imprisonment to save the Tamil Language. One of the good effects of
this agitation is the increasing urge in our people to hear Tamil music. To
encourage the Tamil Music Movement, many rich people volunteered to
donate money. It will not take much time to root out the shameless actors and
disgraceful producers. All that we have to do is to agitate. It is enough if 5000
people are prepared to go to jail. There are many things we have to do. Of the
many this is one.
In the West you find dramas and films depicting the rise of renaissance. In
our country many unbelievable things are going on in the name of religion,
puranas and gods. Even the government is a party to this. Things which have
to be eschewed, hated and rejected are in full sway.
You don’t find others worried about all these!
Is it enough to indulge in mere sophisticated talks to reform a society and
do good to the country? Is it enough if people are asked to spin daily for the
country’s welfare? Is it enough if people are advised to wear Khadhi cloth for
the country’s progress?
Should we not wisely plan and act? We must do things in a constructive
manner. The evil of attaching importance to speeches without doing anything
laudable has resulted in dishonest people rising up as leaders and prominent
men. They parade themselves as full blooded politicians and leaders of the
nations.
So I appeal to the youths to think over the existing state of affairs and
realise their responsibility. Even our womanfolk should come forward,
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 140

unmindful of any other thing. In order to redeem the lost honour of a nation,
atleast a few people should be ready to face any disgrace. Don’t you find
many people behave even immorally for the sake of their belly? So come to a
decision to redeem our honour and self-respect at any cost. If there is
anything good you can do to others, don’t hesitate.
Recollect what Valluvar - the Great Preacher of Moral Virtues has said
about self-respect. He warns that one would be harming a great cause, if he
contemplates about his own dignity and status. For the sake of honour and
dignity one must be prepared to risk even his life. Why do l say so? Self-
respectors can never afford to lose their dignity and honour.
All the talks on communism in our country is bogus. Our youths must
keep away from such talks. What is the work they do? Their eyes are always
on the leaders of the Justice Party. Their work is to criticise the Muslims and
rich people. They are not worried about the evil casteism or reactionary
propaganda of Gandhi. They are not worried about Rajaji who wants only the
Brahmins to live happily. They are not worried about the Congress party that
upholds the Varnasrama Dharma. They are not worried about khadhi being
symbolic of barbarous age.
The communists are dominated by the evil forces cited above. So I appeal
to the youth to be aware of these communists. Communism here, as it is, is a
sugar coated poisonous pill. Beware!
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 141

GOD AND MAN
TAMIL SPEECH DELIVERED
BY PERIYAR IN 1973
I say, “He who invented god is a fool”. Why do I say so?
The aboriginal man at first began to think of many things. He wanted to
know how the world was created. He could not understand how the world
continues to exist. He wanted to know the cause for birth and death. He saw
around him many things created by man. He personally understood how such
things existed. It is quite natural that he had an urge to understand about other
things also. When he could not find an answer for existence of birth and
death, he wrongly guessed that there should be some one else behind all these
things understandable. He remained in darkness with contentment.
That is the reason, why even now the third rate fools ordinarily put the
question “If there is no god, how were you born?” He further says in his
talks, “Man only built the house. How were the mountains, seas, rivers, trees
and shrubs were created? There must be a cause for all these creations” With
these words he comes forward to prove the existence of god.
So, it is ignorance or inability to seek the truth that leads him to believe in
god and his creations. So, the very thought of god is merely the outcome of
one’s ignorance. His conception of god is built on the bedrock of mere guess.
He merely invents god, for all those things which he cannot fully
understand or completely realize. On account of this, ordinary men who
could obtain the real truths with their average knowledge felt it unnecessary
and unwanted to probe further into the matter.
He felt it convenient to believe in mere myths. Such a state of affairs kept
the majority of the people away from thinking deeply and to carry on
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 142

research. Man’s ability to probe deep and carry on research work was
practically banned. That is why, the people who believed in the existence of
god are considered to be irrational.
Even though the man is endowed with abundant powers of thinking, the
way and the extent to which it is actually put to use alone is to be judged.
I like to enlighten you further, by stating my own experience some 75
years back.
There was a Municipal Hospital at Erode in those days. There were two or
three indegenous medical practitioners and a Christian preacher attached to
the hospital. There was the outbreak of the disease called Cholera twice every
year. The then population of Erode was only
about 15000 people. Every year about 300 people fell victims to
Cholera. In some years even 500 people died. In those days people
believed “ Cholera” is the game of an evil goddess called “Om Kali Amman”.
So they avoided any treatment by doctors. Even if doctors came forward
to give medicine they refused to take. They used to say that the goddess
would become more agitated, if medicine is taken. They even rebuked the
doctors. Cholera used to spread for about a month or two. When it naturally
subsides and the deaths decrease at the rate of one or two after a month, they
used to offer their prayers to the goddess Om Kali Amman. On that occasion
elderly women used to tease others by saying that the goddess ‘Amman’ has
entered their body and scolds the people thus: “You people do not mind or
respect me unless I play my game. When I actually show my powers you
offer special prayers. I will wreak my vengeance” On hearing these words the
people were actually afraid and made promises on the spot to offer special
prayers to the Amman. In a few days the Cholera would subside on its own
accord.
In the meantime the authorities of the Municipality would take all
measures to fight out Cholera. They would advise the people to boil the
drinking water before using. They would advise the children not to purchase
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 143

eatables, which are not fully covered. They would advise the people not to eat
the old and cold dishes. They would guard the water resources from
pollution. While these things are going on, all on a sudden a woman would
cry stating that her words are the words of Amman. “I brought two pots of oil
(Cholera). I take the balance to some other village. I am leaving your village
now”. People used to offer prayers in the night and take out a procession with
the old mats, rags and pots and keep them beyond the boundary of the
village.
You may be aware that when quarrel arises between two women, one
would accuse the other saying, ‘will not the Amman give you a spoonful of
oil’. Because one gets loose motion or purging by taking oil, those people
referred cholera as oil. In those days Cholera deaths were shocking. In some
villages more than 75 percent deaths occured due to Cholera. People would
not take any precaution. They refused to get treated. They did not care to find
out the real cause for the outbreak of Cholera.
As a matter of fact Cholera broke out only during the festival months.
People from various towns and cities used to congregate at a particular place.
They had to eat whatever was available. They committed nuisance anywhere
they liked. Drinking water was easily polluted. Lack of sound sleep and
consumption of half baked mutton, fish and other non-vegetarian dishes are
common during the festival months(Margazhi, Thai, Masi, Panguni). It was
so even during the other Hindu festivals as Ekadasi, Poosam, Magam,
Deepam etc. The ordinary people who met at the specific places of worship,
carried the infectious germs to the rest of the houses, inns, choultries, trains,
buses and lodges. Infection was easy. People of those days could not really
understand what infectious diseases were, how they were caused, and how
one could prevent them. So they believed that it was all the work of god.
If the situation was so, just 70-75, years back, it is no wonder that people
who lived some 100-200-500-1000 years ago were so blindly believing in the
existence of god.
However, the blind belief that Cholera is the work of god, has gradually
faded. Today people believe in the treatment for eradication of Cholera. The
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 144

health department has carried out a number of good schemes. They take
vigilant steps to protect the tank water, well water and other sources of
drinking water by modern scientific methods. On an average about three
hundred people died every year when the population of Erode was 15000. To
day the population is 70,000. Yet rarely 20 to 30 persons die every year.
Now it is clear how the belief in god, and his powers made the people
ignorant and foolish. As the people began to shed their belief in god and his
powers, they have gained wisdom and the society has consequently gained
much.
Even in Western countries, even though people believe in god, they do
not believe in his powers nowadays.
‘ Believe in god; but keep the iron safe carefully locked’ is what the
Christian follows.
“Believe in god; but keep the horse safely tied in the stable” is what the
Muslims follow.
What do we learn out of these? God is not a necessity for intelligent man.
God is not like food that is indispensable. It is only just like dress worn to suit
the surroundings. That is the truth about god. If anyone is to say that the
belief in god is absolutely necessary for life, I would only say that such a
person is merely a distilled dud or a log of wood. Moreover, such a person
would not come forward to prove the existence of god to us. He will leave it
to god himself to prove his existence. So, there is no denying the fact that god
is the creation of fools.
I say he who preaches god is a rogue. I say so because he has given a
definite shape to god and attributed high qualities to god. Those who define
god go on saying that god is omnipotent, omniscient and so on.
They say that god has no shape. They say that he is kind. How could we
say that they are ignorant? We could say that a person is ignorant, if he is
unable to know a particular thing. But these people come forward to define
and explain god. They intentionally dupe the people.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 145

If a fool says that there is god, these people go a step forward and
attribute to god as though they have really seen god. When we ask him how
he is, they say that he is shapeless. How could one see a thing that has no
shape? There are certain things which we can feel even though they have no
definite shape. Senses of taste, smell, touch, sight and sound make us feel and
realize them. For example, we cannot see air. But we feel it as it blows.
Similarly though we cannot see the electricity we feel it as it functions.
We realize it when we find its light or heat. We make use of it as we like. We
are able to control it by merely pressing a button in the switches. Thus we are
able to know its various qualities.
That is why I say that it is absurd to believe a thing that we can neither
see nor feel. He who wants us to believe must be a rogue. God is a myth. He
who indulges in dishonest means can never be considered as honest. Yet the
Brahmins do so only with the intention of making the gullible public as
scape-goats. People are intentionally made idiots. By such roguish and
dishonest means they want to defraud the people. God is a big hoax. They not
only say that god is shapeless but also proclaim that he is everywhere. It is
another Himalayan fraud. What are we to call their boldness?
When we tell them, “What sir, you are telling so many things about god.
We do not understand. To our minds god is not clear”. They reply, “God
cannot be seen by anybody. He is not comprehensible to any human mind. So
you cannot see him or understand him. That is why god is defined as one who
has no shape. He cannot be felt or understood even to the educated and the
intelligent”. Is it not a big fraud played with the people, in an orderly
disciplined manner by the rogues?
How could a thing that is neither perceptible nor clear to the intelligent
sections be seen, felt and understood by these fools?
Comrades! If you meet such fellows who are theists, you may yourself
put these relevant questions with the intention of understanding god.
The two things that render people irrational are god and religion. God is
an elixir to be given to a man to convert him into a fool. No man invented the
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 146

sun, moon, fire, water, wind, stone and mud. Man only gave the names.
There is no need to explain them or find the causes for these.
Man is bound to know them and enjoy them.
But, god is not the one like that. God has to be preached by one. It is not
enough if one simply preaches. One must blindly believe what another
preaches. Not only that. One must be made to believe god by force or
compulsion. Unless one takes so much pains, poor god cannot enter the
minds of others. Yet god is said to be omnipotent. What a pity!.
The story of god is what a fool has imagined. His imagination has made
the thinking talents of man inactive. Even as the burning flame in the hands
of a child sets fire to the house and renders the city to dust and ashes, the
thought of god has practically killed the thinking ability of humanity. Some
people described god as ‘Namasivayam’. Namasivayam means nothing or
vacuum. That is the interpretation given by some saivite scholars as M L
Pillai and Thiru Vi-Ka. Yet they were worshiping idols for a long time and
later on they changed.
I do not understand why a man needs god, particularly when one does not
really believe in all the powers of god. Everyone for the sake of custom says
ordinarily that everything is the direct result of god’s actions. But in actual
life, every man distinguishes what is self action, what is nature, what is
sudden, what is accident and so on.
Even those who believe that everything is god’s action, do not fail to take
precautionary steps. If everything is god’s creation how has an atheist who
denies god come into existence?
Further, if it is true that god is everywhere, why is he not able to prove his
presence, by his own appearance. The believer in god does not think of these
relevant and sensible questions.
A Christian says that god has given man wisdom. Man has to seek god
through wisdom. When we ask how god, which was clear to their wisdom is
not clear for our wisdom, they say that atheists are sinners and so cannot
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 147

reach god.
Who created those sinners? If god has created sinners; why did he make
them sinners? If god has not created sinners then who created them? When
we put this question they say that devil or satan has been responsible. They
are not willing to answer further. It is all because they themselves are not able
to understand what they are speaking. It is so with the orthodox Islamites. So
far as Hinduism is concerned, there are Mummurthis called Brahma, Sivan
and Vishnu, Kali, Kathavarayan, Maduraiveeran, Karuppannan, Alwars,
Nayanmars, dead ones, stones, pictures birds, beasts, trees, cow-dung and so
many others worshiped as gods.
Why do I enumerate so many gods? If it is true that god is omnipotent,
how ridiculous it is that he is not able to reveal himself in a definite form or
shape. Is god so weak, impotent and incapable?
Added to this sorry state of affairs, there are people who talk of previous
life, next life, fate, dharma, heaven and hell. They seem to me like the
blabbering of the drunken mad fellows.
Man has enough to suffer from birth to death. Added to these sufferings
these gods and superstitious thoughts as fate, heaven and hell play havoc.
They practically torture the mind of man. The living beings are still unable to
understand why they suffer from pain, sorrow, worries and calamities. Of all
the living beings man is said to be the only rational being.
It is because man is endowed with rationalism, he suffers more than other
living beings. The real cause for it is the damnable god.
If we are to share the food and work equally there is no necessity for god.
In such a state, god has no work.
Today man is subjected to slavery, misery and difficulties because his
interests are vested in the hands of the mighty and fraudulent religious cheats.
In another 50 years the average longevity of man is going to reach 100
years. That is certain. Already in some countries the average life of man has
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 148

gone up to 67-74. In our own country in 1950 the average life of man was 32
years. The percentage of literacy in 1940 was 9%. By the efforts of the Chief
Minister of Tamil Nadu Mr. Kamaraj the percentage of literacy has rapidly
increased to 50 percent. Added to this, the belief in god has been
considerably reduced. So I say the more and more, the thought of god
diminishes, the people would become wiser. If our women enjoy their
independence in life and if socialism spreads in leaps and bounds, the
wisdom of man and his longevity would simultaneously go on increasing.
Today the Government is in the hands of Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam
(DMK). They are atheists. If they increase their membership by a few more
lakhs, they will ever remain in power sound and stable.
Of all the foolish notions which ruined the human race on earth, it is the
thought of god that is of foremost significance. Of all the religions of the
world, there are only three big religions considered important. They are
Christianity, Islam and Hinduism. Of these three, the first two have historic
significance. So far as the third religion is concerned, it is a religion that was
built up gradually with more and more fantastic ideas. It is a religion forced
on the people with the primary intention of hood-winking them. It may be
called a mixture. It attained the name of Hinduism at a very later stage and
after the spread of the other two religions only.
At first it was the Vedic religion for sometime. Then it was called the
Aryan Religion. Later it was called the Brahmanic religion. At last it was
christened as Hinduism.
In the world, Christianity is the biggest religion having the largest
following.
Next comes Islam. When compared to Christianity, Islam has ¾ of
followers.
Whereas the followers of Hinduism are only about ½ of the followers in
the Islamic religion.
Apart from these three religions, there is another religion called
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 149

Buddhism. There is no particular god for this religion. Yet they have the
belief and follow certain rituals. Buddhism is in fact next to Christianity so
far as the followers are concerned. It is a religion prevalent mainly in China,
Siam, Burma and Ceylon. If we are to call Buddhism by another name, we
may call it the religion of wisdom, because “Buddhi” means knowledge. Why
should Buddhism be called the religion of wisdom? While all other religions
have a god, Buddhism has no particular god. It is so because, there can be no
god for a religion that is based on wisdom. That is why Buddhism is said to
be the religion of wisdom.
Yet even the Buddhists and intelligent people will not accept Buddhism
as the religion based on wisdom. Why?
For a religion to thrive, it must have a god and people should have belief
in god. Added to these the followers have to blindly believe absurd stories
and irrational beliefs.
When one considers Buddhism on this basis, it may be defined as a mere
way of life. Its preaching and ideas are like that.
Even though people of all religions believe in god, yet there are religions,
which have only one god and other religions, which have more than one god.
Even though the followers of these three major religions have belief in one
god and ‘devas’, yet, their concept of god remains uniform.
Those who believe in god, conceive god to be like a man. Many of the
gods have a human form, behaviour, qualities and other activities as men.
They simply attributed the qualities of man to a greater extent. But man has
to transform all his thoughts into action by striving. Though god is also like a
man, he is said to have greater powers to transform instantly his thoughts into
action. This is the only difference between man and god. Both man and god
exist similarly. Both are like human beings. Both have human qualities and
behaviour. Except that god is said to possess them to a greater extent than
man, it is not said that divine qualities are noble and high.
Jesus Christ is foisted as a ‘Kumaran’ (Son) of god.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 150

Mohammad Nabi is foisted a ‘thoothan’ (messanger) of god.
‘Similarly’ man is also having ‘ kumaran’ (Son) and ‘thoothan’
(messenger).
The only difference is man conceives them daily in life.
God does good to those who do good. God punishes those who are bad.
Similarly man does good to those who are kind to him. He does harm to
those who harm him.
God need not take pains to display his action. He does instantly. But man
has to take pains to display his thoughts into action.
God is said to forgive a man who has committed atrocities, the moment
the sinner prays to him. Similarly man also forgives those who repent.
God refuses to forgive some and punishes them with vengeance. Similarly
man also refuses to forgive some and wreaks vengeance.
So, we find that all the qualities in man are also reflected in god. What all
god does, man also follows.
Man commits the criminal deeds.
God also has his own share of criminal deeds.
Man has the jail to punish.
God has hell to punish.
Man punishes. God also punishes.
Man kills a number of other living beings. God also kills men and other
living beings.
Man remains a silent spectator to starvation and poverty. God also
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 151

remains silent when living beings starve.
Even those who have conceived more than one god, have not deviated
from the mono-theist way of conceiving god. He has incorporated even the
vices and bad qualities of man into god. Man in the primitive age was like a
barbarian, cruel, hardhearted, foolish and characterless. Naturally when he
conceived more gods, he naturally made his gods embodiments of all human
behaviour, good and bad.
For example, a Brahmin did not conceive the idea of god in the
beginning, because he dwelt in mountains. That is why he conceived a
number of ‘devas’ (devine persons) as inhabiting the high horizon. Even
these ‘devas’ were not free from the vices of man. He simply attributed the
various qualities of man to the various devas. He simply called them by
different names. To make the people believe these devas, he attributed such
qualities which would create a terror in the minds of human beings.
The Saivites called devas as ‘Rudran’ and ‘Durgai’. In Europe, the
barbarian described god as father god and mother god. Here the Saivites call
‘Amman God’ (Mother God), and ‘Appan God’ (Father God). Such gods are
said to possess the deadly weapons as spear, sword etc and travel on wild
beasts as lion, tiger, bull, etc. They worshiped only such terrorising forms of
god.
In those days, they took Parvathi as the goddess of earth, Varuna devan as
the god of water, Vayudevan as the god of air, Agnidevan as the god of fire,
Akasavani as the goddess of the sky and the Sun as Suriya Baghavan(Sun),
Chandra Baghavan(Moon), Emadarman as the god of death, Brahma as the
god of creation, Vishunu as the god of life, Siva as the god of destruction and
so on. For all the devas they considered ‘Indiran’ as the King. He was also
known as Devendran.
All these male gods and devas had wives. Goddesses had husbands. Some
gods had sons and daughters also. The important thing we have to notice in
all these is that no god or goddess was deemed to be highly virtuous or honest
or embodiment of good character. They created gods just like men with mere
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 152

ignoble and worst qualities. There was no limitation to the worst deeds of
these gods. What all we consider as bad, evil and ridiculous were
prominently seen in these gods. All these have become gods to be
worshipped by the people eternally. Even today, it is said that one who
worships all these gods would be blessed profusely.
What is god? What are the great qualities of god? Even now people are
unable to understand. Today people worship these gods, which have all sorts
of bad qualities and evil tendencies. Yet we simply hear that gods have very
high and great qualities. Actually in life, we do not see anything like that.
Generally man is made a fool mainly by this concept of god. I do not
know why no one has come forward to expose the ignorance of the people.
Even the educated intlligentia is lethargic in this. If we are to seek the first
philosopher born in the world, we could say that it is only Gowdhama
Buddha. That is what our history also tells us. Next to him we would say
Socrates of the West. Their philosophic truths are not being properly
understood.
Today the world is adhering to the baseless, idiotic religious preaching.
The state and administration have become the subordinates to Brahmins
out of selfishness. Each Brahmin has also subordinated himself to evil things.
He simply concentrated on his being recognized as superior by birth. For that
sake he protects god. Yet he does not endeavour to rise up above others in
any quality. He is not worried at all to be superior in the display of virtues
and high values in life.
Similarly, those who attribute greater qualities to god say that god is the
supreme being. But they do not come forward to prove anything greater in
god than in men.
For a religion there must be a god, heaven, hell, divine powers,
incarnations, religious heads, priests, symbols and caste marks. Without these
there can be no religion in the world. Even these are not sufficient for the
Hindu religion. Hinduism needs innumerable gods, variety of heavens,
different hells, different births, sufferings, different asthanas, different guriji’s
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 153

and so on. The devoteees who have attained ‘moksha’ (immortality) by
personally contacting god are also needed for the spread of Hinduism. These
are similar with Vaishnavism and Saivism which form the two wings of
Hinduism. There may be differences in names. But so far as the functioning
is concerned, it is almost identical. It seems as though one has copied the
other.
To cite an example, in Vaishnavism, the reason for Ramayana is almost
similar to what is said for Kandapuranam in Saivism.
The intercourse god Vishnu had with Lakshmi is said to be the cause for
Ramayana. The intercourse Siva had with Parvathi is said to be the cause for
Kandapuranam. Let me illustrate it further.
It is said in the story that rishis (saints) came to meet Vishnu in day light.
It seems Vishnu was with his wife Lakshmi in the bed. Yet, that too during
day time! The gate keepers who had the knowledge of what Vishnu was
doing with Lakshmi at that time, did not permit the Rishis to enter the private
chamber of god Vishnu. Getting angry, the Rishis cursed the gate keepers. To
rid them of the curse, it is said the Ramayana took place.
Similarly the worshipful god Shiva is said to have had intercourse with
his wife Parvathi at a stretch for more than hundreds of years. The Devas
(Divine persons) in the Indralokam (Heaven) were very much worried about
Parvathi. They thought that the semen of Siva in the womb of Parvathi would
cause great havoc. So they thought it their foremost duty to separate the
couple, even before their act of intercourse was completed. They somehow
succeeded in their attempts. But the semen excreted from the penis of Lord
shiva created a number of inexpressible ugly beings and at last resulted in the
birth of another god, the son of Shiva-Lord Muruga. Yet some people
attribute that Murugan was born to get rid of the ‘Rakshasas’.
For the birth of Rama, Devas prayed to Mahavishnu.
For the birth of Muruga, Devas prayed to Paramsivam.
Rama killed the Rakshasas; Murugan killed the Asuras.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 154

When Rama was engaged in killing the Rakshasas, somehow the number
of Rakshasas went on increasing suddenly. When Murugan was engaged in
killing the Asuras, they too are said to have increased in numbers all of a
sudden.
Rama’s wife Sita was an adopted virgin. Similarly Murugan’s wife
Vallidevi was also bred and brought up by others.
There are a number of similarities between Vishnavism and Saivism.
These stories are also one like the other.
Even in the stories related to the Acharyas of Vaisnavism and the
Nayanmars of Saivism there is practically no major difference. The way in
which they lived their life, the way in which they attained salvation are
almost identical.
The book titled Baktha Leela, which is the puranic literature of
Vaishnavism and the book titled Periya Puranam which is the puranic
literature of Saivism are almost similar.
If there is a story about a potter in Vaishnava Purana, there is a potter in
the Saivapurana also. The Vaisnava potter was called Gora Kumbar. The
Saiva Potter was called Thiruneelakandar. Their stories are also similar. Gora
Kumbar was not in good terms with his wife.
Thiruneelakandar was also not in good terms with his wife. Mahavishnu
brought Gorakumbar and his wife to terms. Similarly Paramasivan brought
Thiruneelakandar and his wife to terms.
In Vaishnavism, there is the story of an untouchable called Shokkamela.
In Saivaism, you have the story of an untouchable called Nandanar. Vishnu
appeared in the dream of Shokkamela. Paramasivan appearned in the dream
of Nandanar. Shokkamela had the ‘ darshan’ of Vishnu. Nandanar had the
darshan of Paramasivan.
What we have to keenly observe in the puranic literature of Saivaism and
Vaishnavism is that, the role of the Brahmin is ever kept high, whereas all
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 155

others are treated as low and contemptible. The evil caste system is
safeguarded in both.
Unless one undertakes a close study and research of these stories, we
cannot say categorically as to who imitated whom. I do not deem it, a useful
work, for me. Moreover, Saivism is dominant only in the South India. It is
very obscure in the North India. There, only Vaishnavism is becoming
prominent. In North India if you say you are a Vaisnavite, then only you are
considered as a vegetarian.
In the religious books, stories of their devotees and gods are almost
identical. This is possible only when one imitates or copies the other.
Otherwise, both the Vaishnavites and Saivites should have met together and
conspired together in the creation of all these identical things.
While there are a number of living things on earth as grass, herbs, plants,
insects, worms, birds and animals, it is only the man who is made to believe
in god. But all other living beings eat, grow, reproduce and die away, just as
men do.
In the matter of birth, life, death and disappearance, there is no difference
between man and other living beings. The difference is seen at the time of
birth itself. Those who have conducted research in finding out the origin of
living species, categorically state that the man and other living beings lead
lives almost of same identity and similarity. Amongst the living beings, it is
only the human race that is endowed with wisdom by nature and as that
wisdom has its own impact on the human mind in later years, the human race
fell a victim to desires and fears which led to multiple types of sorrows and
sufferings in life. Their desires and fears with ignorance together made man a
subordinate to god. This belief in god created in the human race neglects the
benefits of knowledge and wisdom. This rendered the human race
unthinking, irrational and fell a prey to difficulties and hardship.
If the evil thought of god has not been foisted on the human kind, the
status of the human race would have been very much advanced by this time.
Mankind would indeed be free from worries, difficulties and sorrows.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 156

Today you cannot come across a man free from worries and sorrows, in
whatever state he might be. Everyone is worried. To those who are atheists,
who do not have any belief in god, everything appears to be natural. If one
considers god as mere myth, he may not have to worry about sorrows or
difficulties; such people are the real men(wisemen). To attain such a state and
renounce everything is not an easy task. He may get wisdom. He may be a
perfect renouncer, yet he may slip and falter just because he is in the midst of
others.
The state of one being free from worries and misery is the real meaning of
salvation(moksha). As such those who call themselves as the idols of
renunciations, can never have belief in god. The more a man has belief in
god, the greater will be the burden. Such a man will have no end to his
desires and deeds.
Why do people worship god nowadays? Generally the belief in god is due
to the personal problems. Whether one is intelligent or not, he expects
something from god and in anticipation of getting his desires fulfilled, he
reposes strong faith in god.
Even those who proclaim that they have renounced everything, want to
get into heaven; I would only say that such people are like those who pray for
a third eye on their back.
It is only to fulfil some want, that devotion, prayer, faith, pooja and other
religious rituals arise. What business have you with god if you really have no
desire or want? There is no wonder that the faith in god is deeper and quite
cognisible particularly amongst those who commit mistakes, blunders, illegal
and unlawful acts. The cheats in society, the fraudulent elements and the
avaricious sections are generally seen to worship god with sincerity and
devotion and pomp and show.
I have experience as prisoner more than ten times. I saw the murderers
and ordinary prisoners keep a picture of god in their cells. Some had religious
books. I came across a murderer having regular bath in the morning and pray
for half-an hour daily in the Rajmundry jail. He used to stand on one leg. He
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 157

used to chant something. In fact, he was an educated rich fellow before he
came to prison. When I asked him what he was doing and why he did so, he
replied that he wanted to get out of the prison early.
You can find a number of corrupt people belonging to Vaishnavism,
Saivism, Islam, Christianity perform pooja, chant something and offer regular
prayers to god. They will not miss or forget god anything. I need not say
much about the business of people who offer prayers with greater show.
It is nothing but the existence of desires and unfulfilled wants that is
responsible for the faith in god. Belief in god is not in any way useful to help
others.
Replies
Question: What is the general views prevalent with people about god?
Answer: Majority of the people believes that god has created everything.
Question: Then?
Answer: They further say that god knows everything, sees everything and
prevails everywhere.
Question: What do people think of the behaviour of god?
Answer: They say that he is just and pure.
Question: What else?
Answer: he is kind, they say.
Question: Do the people think that god is always kind?
Answer: No. As wisdom and discipline in society increases, they consider
god as kind and much more.
Question: Kindly explain
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 158

Answer: The god of Barbarian was a thief. The god of an Arab was a
dictator. The god of Jews was a Warmonger. The Christian god was for
enforcing punishment on the ordinary people who commit petty offences.
Question: What are your other views on god?
Answer: God is said to govern the thought, speech and action of men.
Question: Why?
Answer: If we are to do what pleases god, he will bless. If we are to do
what is not pleasing to him, he will punish.
Question: What name is attributed to god?
Answer: People of different places call god by different names. Zeus is
the name of Greek. Jove is the name in Rome. Armusjid is the name amongst
Parsis. Hindus call ‘Brahma’. Jehowah is what Christian’s call. Allah is the
god of Muslims.
Question: Any other names?
Answer: Supreme being –giver of happiness – Paramatma – Nitya sakthi
– prapanchan – nature – so on.
Question: Do the people refer all these to one god?
Answer: No, some people refer to person. Some to certain thoughts. Some
to certain laws. Some say that god is un-understandable.
Question: Do people hold belief in one god?
Answer: People believe in one god as well as in many.
Question: Can there be more than one god?
Answer: Generally people believe in many gods.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 159

Question: What are they called?
Answer: Mostly theists.
Question: Mention some people with faith in multi-gods.
Answer: Egyptians, Hindus, Greeks and Romans.
Question: Mono theists?
Answer: Jews, Christians and Muslims.
Question: Were they originally mono theists?
Answer: No, originally all people believed in many gods.
Question: What are the multi-gods?
Answer: Sun, moon, spirit, shadow, giants, beasts, trees, mountains
stones, river etc.
Question: How do you say so?
Answer: People worshipped them, built temples for them, created idols
and performed pooja.
Question: Did the people believe that all these gods had the same power?
Answer: A few intelligent people said that they are all subordinates to one
supreme being.
Question: What about the ignorant?
Answer: They thought that some were more powerful, some merely kind,
some merely beautiful, some merely intelligent.
Question: Why did they create gods?
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 160

Answer: The primitive man was like a child afraid of things. Whatever
was new to him he began to fear. He imagined that there is something he
could not see or understand. He was weak and helpless. He sought something
to rescue him and help him.
Man by nature seeks company. To get himself secure, he created gods of
things which were new to him.
Mortality has also been one of the causes for the creation of gods.
Question: How?
Answer: If we can live eternally without facing the inevitable death, we
need no god. The thought of death and rebirth makes man think of god as the
reason for birth and death. Looked at the other living beings as animals,
because they have no idea of death, they have no necessity to think of god.
Question: Are the number of gods increasing?
Answer: No it is decreasing.
Question: Why?
Answer: As the wisdom of the people becomes more and more, man gets
more confidence in safeguarding himself.
Question: Are the gods of intelligent lesser than that of the ignorant?
Answer: Yes, it is only the uncivilized who worship more gods.
Question: What about the mono-theists?
Answer: Mono-theists are today in the majority.
Question: Are there Atheists?
Answer: Yes. A number of people.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 161

Question: Why do they have no belief in god?
Answer: They believe that the gods are detrimental to the welfare of the
society.
Question: Cannot the existence of god be proved?
Answer: Some say yes, some say no. But none has so far proved.
Question: What are the reasons said to prove god?
Answer: Cause and effect theory. Some say that everything must have a
cause. Similarly, they argue that some one should have created the world. If
that is so, should there not be some cause for god? Who created that god?
Question: Can he not exist independent?
Answer: Then the very theory becomes fallible. If god can exist
independently, why not the world?
Question: What are we losing if we imagine that there is some reason for
god’s existence?
Answer: In that case, we will be driven to the necessity of finding the
further cause. And there will be no end.
Question: Some say, that god is perfect? What is your view?
Answer: If god is really perfect, it must be perceivable and the memory
about it should remain in a definite form. But it is not so. We only create such
an impression. That makes man believe that he is imperfect and god is
perfect. Moreover perfection is a quality. It is not necessary that a big city
should be under the sea, just because we have such a faith or impression.
Question: Explain further please.
Answer: Originally people had the impression that world is flat. That faith
cannot be the universal truth because, there never was an earth flat anytime.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 162

Some people compare the time teller (clock) to god. They say that, just
because there is a clock before our eyes, there must be one creator. Similarly,
as there is the world there must be a creator and that creator is god.
Question: What is your view?
Answer: We know everything about the time teller(Clock), but not about
the world. Moreover we may say that there must be one creator for a clock.
But we cannot say what all necessitated the creation of the world by god. On
that basis no one can prove the creator of the world.
Question: Then what do you suggest to avoid the confusion?
Answer: Man must think deeply always. We should be made to believe
anything by force. We must study, realize and then believe in anything and
everything. We must be allowed to think boldly and freely.
Man is a rational being. He is endowed with the thinking abilities. He
must be allowed to think. That is the road to realize all truths.
*~*~*
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 163

RATIONALIST THOUGHTS!
(Speech delivered by Thanthai Periyar E.V. Ramasami on 22.6.1971
at Mettupalayam while inaugurating the Rationalist Association)
Comrades,
I am glad to be present here. It is said that I came here
some ten years ago. I too remember. But I do not exactly remember the
year when I came here last. Yet, I am happy that an opportunity is given to
me to be here now. Here, many learned persons spoke. They spoke to you
many thought – provoking ideas. I too desire to say a few more words.
Before I could say anything I request you all not to believe straight away
what I say. Don’t hurriedly plunge yourselves to carry out what I say. What
all I desire is that you should think about what all I say. Think over whether
what I say is right or not. If you find anything right in what I say take it. If
you wish to do what is right, then carry on.
on’t accept anything just because I said or we said, here.
Why should any one think?
I will tell you why?
We are for rationalist propaganda. We want the people to live as rational
beings. We do not propagate anything unbelievable. We don’t talk anything
based on god, children of gods, incarnations, religion, shastras, customs, and
so on. We talk of things acceptable to your reason in all matters we talk
about. If our society had made use of the rationalist outlook and the sense of
reasoning there would be no worry. But our people were prevented to do so.
“You must hear what we say. All the things we talk about are the very words
of god. I am an incarnation of god. So you should all act as what I say”. Such
talks and preaching were necessary to impose their own ideas, with the result
that the people were forbidden to think of their own. This practice is not of
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 164

recent origin. Men were endowed with rationalism from the early days. Yet
after 2000, 3000 years we have got to appeal to them once again to think of
their own. What a pity!
Today we have inaugurated a Rationalists Association here. It is evident
that it is the organisation of the rational human beings. We are discussing
about the right ways of living.
Those who refuse to think or behave irrationally are merely animals. Why
do I say so? Among the living beings, the animals have no rational outlook
and reasoning capacity. Man is not like that. Human beings are rational. They
exhibit many senses. The shrubs and small plants are said to possess only one
sense. They know not the other senses. Worms and germs are said to have
two senses. Their behaviour changes little by little. Swimming beings like
fish and whale have three senses. Flying beings like birds have four senses.
Walking beings like cow, horse etc., have five senses. But rationalism the
power to reason – the talent to think independently is considered as the sixth
sense. That is seen only in the case of human beings.
There are living beings, which exhibit peculiar qualities. There are living
beings, which are capable of doing things, which cannot be done by man.
Take the case of ant. It has a better sense of smell than human beings. Take
the case of a bird. It can fly high and go a long distance quickly. Man cannot.
Take the case of a monkey. It can jump high from one place to another. A
lion can kill an elephant. Like these there are many things, which are done by
other living beings. What man is incapable of performing, other living beings
are capable of doing to a large extent. But in the human beings, the sense of
reasoning and thinking according to one’s mental development and
experience leads to a happy life. No other living being is rational in its
behaviour.
Such a rational man has fortified his intelligence. Such a rational man has
failed to make use of his rationalism. On account of this, man has not
advanced himself in many ways. When we look at our people we find them
devoid of Self-Respect and they are not at all worried about. Our people are
not able to progress in spite of their knowing many things happening in other
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 165

countries. We see great advancement there. We read many things about the
people in other countries.
We are “Shudras”
We are called “Shudras”. “Shudra” means the son of a prostitute. When
we ask how, they say Sastras say so, or someone said so, and god said so long
ago. By quietly believing all these we have lost our sense of respect and
honour. We are worried only about food. Our advancement was hindered. We
are worried only about the means to eke out a living. That is the quality of
animals. We are also living as animals.
No one came forward to speak about rationalism to this day, in our
country. If at all anyone talked of rationalism; it was 2000; 3000 ago and it
was acceptable to people of those days only. Even that is not respected
nowadays. No one has the guts to think about all these. Why did it so
happen? Those things are not acceptable to our reasoning faculty. They
brought in god. They talk of created things. They say that god alone is so
powerful. They say that the sons of gods said certain things. They say that
god’s messengers said certain other things. Because of all these impositions
on our society there was no necessity for man to think himself. Such evil
thoughts eroded the mind of man. His duty was only to believe blindly
everything in the name of god and do things believing that they were
ordained by god. This made him static. That is why we see no advancement.
You may ask how all these thwarted our betterment. Look at other countries
and the advancement there. There, man is able to land on the moon, which is
2,30,000 miles away from the earth. He is able to fly at a speed of 5000, 6000
miles an hour. His powers of thinking, reasoning and rationality made him to
advance to that extent. Are we able to do anything like that?
We are supposed to have plenty of well wishers, guides, philosophers and
prophets. We have thousands of leaders, rishies, mullas, bishops, religious
leaders and pandara sannathis. We have many religions also. What is it we
have gained? We are not able to do anything. Why? How many years would
have rolled on since the first man came to this world? We are unable to say
when the first man was born. Some research workers say one lakh years ago.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 166

There are others who say that man came into being in the world some 18
lakhs years ago. There are people who say that man came into being even
earlier. What have we achieved all these years? Ordinarily we see many
changes in hundred years. What is the advancement you find in our country?
How much we should have gained with this long period of existence? Why
do you feel disappointed? What is the use of our so many gods and holy
leaders?
We had countless Mahans. Anyone easily becomes a saint or Mahatma or
Bakthan or spiritual leader of our people. Yet we are not able to gain
anything.
All those comforts and facilities we are enjoying today are the inventions
of scientists living in other countries. Our gods are said to be very powerful.
What have they done? The stories about the incarnation of gods say
wonderful things. It is said some gods are able to play with mountains as
mere play balls. Many fantastic qualities are attributed to our gods. But have
we performed any miracle in anyway to the outside world? Nothing so far!
Even the matchstick would not have come to us, if Europeans had not
come here ((India). We would be sitting in darkness only. Our life would be
stagnant. We are using the bullock cart for travelling. Now you find
aeroplanes. How did they come? Is it by prayer? Is it by chanting slokas? Is it
by Pooja? No! Not at all! You cannot get anything with the help of god.
That is why we ask the people to behave like rational human beings. Our
people are today unable to gain anything to live happily. We are not able to
achieve anything because of our traditional blind belief in god, religion,
shastras, vedas, dharma, and Mahans. Because we pay heed to spiritual
leaders and their teachings, we are downtrodden.
Some of the speakers here referred to our ignorance. Do not worry as to
what the shastras say. We must change. We must think. You find people
going back and sitting for a while, when a cat goes across him. You ask him
why. He replies that it is a bad omen. He says that he should sit down for
sometime and proceed some time later. When the crow caws, he hesitates to
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 167

proceed. He believes that the crow is cawing to warn him. He says that he
gets polluted when the refuse of a bird falls on him. He refuses to touch
others. He takes a bath with his dress worn. Yet we are to call him a man! He
believes that a particular time alone is auspicious. Is there any meaning in all
these absurd notions? Who condemns all these idiotic practices? Who advises
the people to make use of their intelligence? How many things could we gain
by our knowledge and experience? We don’t use them. That is why we are
living in a barbaric land. I can only say this much.
It is a good thing foreigners have come to our place. They introduced a
few reforms boldly. They were accused of interfering with our religion and
shastras. If the Britishers had not come here, we would still continue to be
very backward. The vested interests indulged in a series of conjectures
against the foreigners. After their exit, no one took up the cause to educate
the people. We the Self-Respectors (Rationalists) only volunteered to play a
noble part to spread rationalism. Looking at the fraud going on in the name of
god and religion and taking into consideration the atrocities played by the
religionists and politicians, we have taken the risk to spread the message of
rationalism. We find rationalist propaganda as the only solution to liquidate
blind beliefs.
Our attempt is towards the welfare of the society. Our work is to make the
man a thinking being. We started the Self-Respect (Rationalist) Movement. It
is to infuse self-respect in the minds of all. The moment we started the
movement, many opposed us. Even a responsible minister took snuff into his
nose and asked me “What do you mean by self-respect now? The very name
of your movement is provoking. Anyone would laugh”. I calmly explained to
him. I said, “we are also feeling sorry. But, you please tell me who you are?
He asked me, why I asked him like that. I asked him to tell me where he
stands in the society? I asked him to tell me the rank he holds under caste
hierarchy? He told me his status in life is that of a minister. He replied that he
is a Reddiar by caste. Stating the caste as Reddy, Gounder, Naidu, Naicker
are all names we have created. But according to shastras, religion and
tradition we are all “Shudras” the fourth caste. This continues to exist from a
long time. We have started the movement to crusade against this long lasting
disgraceful status. After that I asked him what is meant by “Shudra”. I myself
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 168

explained to him that “shudra” means the son of a prostitute.
Then I continued to speak to him. I said, “You have high degree of
education. You have passed B.A., B.L., You were a minister for three years.
Again you are a now a minister. You are still a “Shudra” the son of a
prostitute. You are not ashamed of your low social status. A fellow who begs
at you, a fellow who is willing to prostitute his womenfolk for you, calls
himself as a high born. You accept him as superior in caste. You prostrate at
his feet”. I finally put the question, “ Now you tell me whether you want the
Self-Respect Movement or not?” He simply replied that all these are existing
from a very long period.
You will also realise that the work of our movement is great and yet not
so easy. We have to work hard. If the wound is of recent origin, it can be
cured easily. But if it is an abscess or tumour that is there for so long, there is
no other go than to operate and remove the things not needed. As our social
evils are deep rooted, we have taken up the role of surgeons.
Self-Respect (Rationalist) Movement
What is the doctrine of the Self-Respect (Rationalist) Movement? It is to
seek the real causes, which have made us all degraded. It is to find out the
factors, which have made us disgraceful. Since we find the creation of god as
one of the reasons we want to destroy god. We find the Congress party also
as one of the factors which is responsible for our degradation. So we want to
destroy Congress. We find Mr. M.K.Gandhi working against our interests. So
we want to be rid of his influence. Similarly we find the Brahmin also as a
vital force that has brought in our ruination. So we are against them. We find
religion as an evil to the society. So we want to destroy religion. The Self-
Respect Movement is against all these five evil forces. In short the Self-
Respect Movement shoulders the responsibility to crusade against god,
religion, Congress, Gandhi and Brahmins. It is these five forces, which
propagated pernicious ideas and made our people victims. Our people are
made slaves. Unless we destroy these five forces, we cannot make our people
better their deteriorating conditions in social life. We are for redeeming the
self-respect of the people.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 169

By this I do not mean that we should plunge into politics. Self-Respect
Movement is not a political organisation. It is purely a social reform
movement. But when these forces stand in the way of our progress, we will
have no other go than to oppose them. You just think over what the policy of
the Congress party is. Congress is wedded to the policy of safeguarding
Gandhi, religion, caste and the status of Brahmins. The Brahmins sought
Gandhi’s help for their selfish interest. Because Gandhi talked of reactionary
ideas, they made him “Mahatma”. Gandhi responded to the call of Brahmins.
Like a drunken mad man he always talked about god, Shastras,
Varnashrama Dharma, Hindu religion and Rama. His propaganda gained
some importance. Today all the journals are under the Brahmin monopoly.
We don’t have any powerful magazine. Our people are lured by their
propaganda. The moment you mention the name of a Brahmin, our people
pay respect. That is why we are pledged to expunge Brahminism out of the
society. God and religion should be ousted from the society. Gandhi who
upholds Varuna Dharma must be opposed. The government which is strongly
supporting them with laws must be removed. The Brahmin who is the
backbone for the intolerable atrocities perpetrated must be taught a bitter
lesson. Things are going on in this shameful manner.
You please think over whether what I say is right or not. Do not blindly
believe what I say. I don’t base my views on any shastra or Veda. I simply
say what strikes to my mind. You too have the sense of reasoning. Think
over. If you find that there is any truth in what I say, take it. Otherwise you
can leave it. I do not compel anyone to blindly believe me. I do not want to
impose my thoughts on the unwilling people. I am not having any intention to
hoodwink anyone. I only remind you that you are also capable of reasoning.
You have the powers to analyse matters and assess the good and bad. I would
like to stress the fact that you have all become unthinking slaves because of
the disastrous machinations of the Brahmins. That is why I stress the
importance of reforming the society. Many leaders have chosen some other
better walks of life. They are selfish. I stand stubborn in this respect.
Rationalism
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 170

Our society needs revolutionary policies. Rationalism propaganda should
be geared up. With that noble object, we start Rationalist Forums and
Associations. There may be people who would condemn such rationalist
associations springing up. They would raise the false cry that our movement
is against something or someone. I tell you very plainly, whether we are
really against such things or not. We are never against justice or opposed to
reason. We call our organisation as Rationalist Association. It is for you to
think over yourself. That is what we expect and that alone would be the right
thing to do. See what other persons are doing. They join with others and
behave as brutes. They start Varnashrama Dharma Associations. It is to
protect castes. They form Sanatanist Associations to protect the old order.
They talk high of what Ram did, or Krishna preached and such other
nonsense. For all these they claim rights. They don’t allow you to think
independently. You have no right to think about what all is said about god,
religion, spiritual heads and other things. They mistake that our propaganda is
against their god, religion and shastras. They raise the cry that our
propaganda hurts their feelings. What does it matter to us? Let them go to
dogs!
How long can we tolerate the disgrace of our being called as Sudras? I am
worried about my people. How long are we to submit to all sorts of insults
and humiliations? How long are we to blindly believe what all Brahmins say?
What is the use of our brains? We see people fly in the air. Are we to be
contented by washing the feet of the Brahmins and drinking the same? Why
should we care at all, when they say that they feel hurt by our propaganda?
Their heart is not greater than ours. We do our duty. We know that we will
have to face dangers and difficulties. We are ready to risk even our lives. Any
day death is going to come! We will no longer remain silent. Because we
continued to be meek and submissive in the past, there was no progress. The
educated Dravidian people were also lethargic, with the result the hirelings
and rowdy elements safeguarded religions. Otherwise there would have been
a great advancement. When we say one thing, the Christians come to attack
us. When we say something else, the Muslims protest. When we leave them
and talk about our religion, it is only the Brahmins who protest. Bur they
don’t directly come to the picture. Persons who still agree to be called as sons
of concubines and others, who adorn their foreheads with ashes and
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 171

‘Namams’ chanting ‘Siva-Siva’ and ‘Rama-Rama’, come to quarrel with us.
I do not want to say anything about the case against me in the Court. No
Brahmin went to the court, when I shoed the picture of god Rama at Salem. It
is only our people, who filed a case against me. They complain that my
action wounded their hearts. I received the summons from the court. You
might have read about it in newspapers. Unless we treat this as a deadly
disease and perform a major operation, I do not think we can solve the
problem. The disease has become a chronic one. That is why I go to the root
of the problem. Mere talks will not yield fruits. We have started this
Rationalist Association to propagate certain revolutionary thoughts. If we
accept ourselves as low, inferior and degraded and if we accept the term
Hindu, we must accept the Shastras, rituals, god and orthodox prescription,
and act accordingly.
Should we not ask as to who called us, as Shudras meaning sons of
prostitutes? Is it your god Krishna? If so where did he say? If it is in Gita,
should we not take our sandals and beat Krishna and Gita? If you are afraid,
then you live as a Shudra. What if, we beat Rama with sandals? He says that
we are Shudras. He killed Shudras. As Sambukan was a Shudra he was
beaten and murdered. His limbs were cut into pieces, because he worshipped
god instead of the Brahmin. Shudras have no right to pray to god. They must
worship the Brahmins. That is what Rama says. It was cunningly concocted
that a Brahmin died because a Shudra prayed to god and the dead body of the
Brahmin was laid before Rama.
I ask you how a Brahmin could die like this? He has to go to Heaven
only! What if a Brahmin is dead?
In the story, it is said that the Brahmin died because all sorts of unjust
things (Adharma) took place under Rama’s rule. Rama asked where the
injustice was done. What wrong was going on, Rama asked. The Brahmins
did not give a convincing reply. They asked Rama to go out and find out
himself. Accordingly he went out. He found Sambuka doing penance. “What
are you doing?” asked Rama. He replied, “I am worshipping god!” - Rama
became angry. He shouted ‘You Shudra fellow! You should worship only the
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 172

Brahmins. Instead of doing that, how dare you worship god? This is
‘adharma’. You must be cut into pieces”. Like a butcher Rama killed
Sambuka.
Imagine what these Brahmins would do, if we are not here. Don’t you
think that the Brahmins would go on killing even all those who worship god?
Won’t they accuse our people? They would cry that Shudras are defamed by
us. Already they are accusing the rulers for not strictly implementing the
Varnashrama Dharma (Caste system).
Geetha
The Brahmins say that Krishna created the castes. It is said that Krishna
allocated for each caste specific functions. Krishna is said to have created the
Shudra caste. Shudras were born only from the feet, because it is a place of
dishonour. Shudras are the fourth caste people. They must be as slaves and
work for the Brahmins. Otherwise, they were to be punished. It is said
Krishna would confine the Shudras to suffer in the hell.
This is the message of Geetha. Because of the prestigious status given to
the Brahmins, all the Brahmins are paying high respects to Geetha. What will
be our future, if we do not take the footwear and beat that Krishna. When we
say that he must be beaten with chappals, people get angry. But they do not
get angry when he says that we are born to prostitutes. Are we to agree that
our mothers are all prostitutes? The Brahmins have ruined us by telling that
no one should defy god, religion and shastras. They forbid us to say anything
against Hinduism. When we say the truth, they say that we hurt them. They
threaten that something bad would happen. Under this setup they have made
our people reactionaries. We the Dravidian Tamils, are degraded. This is
what is still going on in the country. What a tragedy! This is the life led by
even educated people. What will a foreigner say on seeing all these?
Supposing a foreigner meets our Hindu religious man, and asks, “Where
are you going”. He would reply, “I am going to the temple to worship god”.
“What god?” He would ask.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 173

“There is an idol” would be the answer.
“What a fool you are! How can a stone or clay become god? Who told
you that it is god?”
A foreigner would put these questions. Bur our people hesitate to ask.
Even Muslims do not come forward to question whether there is a god in a
stone piece. Why? He is afraid of Hindu majority. Even Christians are like
that.
Who comes forward to prove that there is god in a stone? But one should
silently believe that god is there in the stone. I ask whether any one has seen
heaven or hell? Let us not be blamed tomorrow by the world . Who is there to
take up this cause and work out ways to emancipate our people? If everyone
wants to become a great baktha by falling at the feet of Brahmins, who is
going to save us? That is why I emphasise the need to strengthen the
Rationalist Association. It must be done at any cost. Then only man can live
as a man. To make everyone behave as human being, our propaganda is
essential. We must be bold. We must be prepared to face any ordeal. You
know how the Muslims safeguarded their religion. Did they not sacrifice?
Even Christians suffered a lot to save their religion. I see hopeful signs in our
path. The tide is in our favour. So let us make use of the golden opportunity
to spread wisdom.
How was Buddhism destroyed by the Brahmins? They pursued violent
methods. Buddhists were massacred. Their houses were set on fire. Their
mutts were captured.
How was the ‘Samana’ (Jain) religion destroyed? Were not the followers
of Samana religion brutally killed by piercing sharp rods into their bodies?
8000 Samanas met with this end. Today festivals are celebrated for this brutal
massacre. They later recorded in their scriptures like Thevaram and
Prabandams, as they please about this inhuman act .
Today the Brahmins complain that what we preach is harsh and
unbearable. See what is stated in the Prabandam. Does it not preach violence?
Does it not say that all the other religions and faiths should be smashed
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 174

violently.
on’t you find Hindu devotees praying to god to bless them in their acts of
raping women, torturing other religionists and killing the followers of other
religions? The so-called sacred Prabandams empower the Hindu to kill,
murder and torture other religionists. What does the Bible say? It says that
one who does not believe in god is a fool. It is the same thing found in all
religions.
In that case, why should we keep quiet? What is wrong in our telling the
fact that he who spreads religion and he who worships god is a fool. Instead
of attacking individuals we say that,
There is no god!
There is no god at all
He who created god is a fool.
He who propagates god is a rogue.
He who worships god is a barbarian.
I will explain further why we say so. He who created the soul, heaven,
hell, abode for the diseased is a rogue. He who believes all these is the worst
rogue. They tell us that we have no wisdom. They tell us that we have no
brain. They call us fools and barbarians.
We are not ashamed of their false propaganda and insinuating remarks. Is
there any one who could explain what “next birth” means? Do you think that
there is any place where the dead parents are alive? It is the Brahmins who
preach all these. Our own fools give rice, dholl etc. to Brahmins and
prostrate. The Brahmins say that he takes all these to the diseased parents.
You ask the Brahmin, as to where he has seen the dead parents in heaven or
hell or in their next birth in this world. You don’t get a convincing reply. The
Brahmin plays hoax and swindles our people. Yet, no person, who believes
him and offers him all things for his diseased parents, takes the pain to
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 175

question the Brahmin. He simply says, “I do not know anything about all
that. I simply fall at the feet of a Brahmin with my wife and children”. What
are we to think of these idiotic acts? What is wrong in our calling them as
fools?
God
Who can say that there is god? No one is able to say that so and so
showed god. They simply blink. They say, somebody said so! The spiritual
leaders say that god was not created by anybody. He came into being of his
own accord. In that case, why should they pick up a quarrel with me? I only
accuse the creator of god. They say that he was not at all created. Then I go a
step further and ask as to how the Brahmins came to know of gods coming
into being, when others knew not anything about his coming into being on his
own accord. They say that god is very powerful. How did they come to know
of it? How is it others were not able to know of it? Are all others fools? Why
is it that the matters related to god are said to be known only to the
Brahmins? Why did god not make others know him? Because we have
intelligence, we probe into these matters.
Origin of God
There was absolutely no such thing as god in the early days. God was
familiarised only during the past 3000 years. Before that, there was no talk
about god. No one knew anything about god. When man heard the thunder,
he conceived out of fear that there was one powerful being controlling winds.
When darkness came he thought similarly. When light flashed he thought like
that only.
It is this sort of thinking that led to believe in Devas (Divine persons) and
gods. Generally the people came to know of various Devas and gods
controlling various happenings this way. Later on, Indiran was created as the
king of Devas. Then more gods were created, one to look after birth, one to
protect the born and one to destroy the living. They were Brahma, Vishnu
and Siva respectively. For anything that was not understandable, man began
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 176

to think there was one to control. Yet he did not consider him as god. He
respected him as we now respect a minister. We have many ministers in the
cabinet. Just like that man conceived one powerful controlling power behind
everything. The Veda says that there is a Deva for looking after one particular
thing. The Christian began to believe in god only 2000 years ago. Muslims
also began to believe in god only some 1500 years ago. Islam had a change
some 1500 years ago. But Brahmins created gods some 3000 years ago. It
was only after the Vedas were made. There was no god during the Vedic age.
It is only after the advent of Vedas that Hindu gods were created.
What did the Brahmins say about the gods then? They said that there is
god. When asked where he is the Brahmin said, he cannot be seen. When you
raise the doubt whether a Brahmin atleast is able to see god and if so, how he
looks like, he replied that he cannot be touched. He said that god has no
shape. When you ask how to believe them, he said that god is not
perceivable.
If things are so bad, then how to say that the Brahmins are not fools. How
are we to call them wise? If no one is able to see or touch or feel god, how is
it possible for the Brahmins alone to know about god? How did they come to
know the existence of god? Our people blindly believe what the Brahmins
preach. Is it not idiocy? Let any one substantiate with fresh proofs at least, to
prove the existence of god.
oes the Brahmin stop with that? He says that god is all-powerful. He says
that everything goes on in the world because of god. He attributes very high
qualities to god. He says that the god is pure, kind, honest and unbiased.
When you ask him how to believe all these, he simply wants the people to
believe everything. If it is true that god has super-natural powers, why is he
not able to make me believe him? When he is not able to do this, how am I to
respect him? Where are his great powers? His powers could not make the
people know about him. What is the world going to lose by denying the
existence of such a god? The total population of the world is estimated to be
450 crores (in 1971). Out of this population, 200 crores of people are atheists.
No god is able to convert the non-believer as a believer of god.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 177

oes the Brahmin keep quiet after creating god? He further wants to
propagate god. That is why I say he is scoundrel. He says that god is
powerful. Then why should he go on propagating about god? You see what
the Brahmin does. He builds a temple. He gives shape to god. Saying that god
has no shape he gives different shapes to god. Where from does he learn the
form of god? Whoever talks about god, describes his shape as a human being.
All other religions say that there is no shape for the god. But the Brahmin
alone asserts that Hindu gods have shape. What does he mean by it? The
shape remains permanent. Has he got any sense in creating many gods with
many shapes? One god has one head only. Another god has two heads. There
are other gods which have four heads, five heads and six heads. Does he stop
with that? Ravana who opposed god Rama had ten heads. You know, why?
His motive is to enhance the greatness of Rama. He did the same regarding
hands. Some gods have two hands. Some gods have six hands. Some gods
have many hands. All these are done with the motive of deceiving the people.
To dupe the people, he concocted the fantastic stories. How could a sensible
man with average intelligence accept all these absurdities? What are we
going to lose if we do not believe these grandma stories?
Should not a rational man think about all these? How long are we to go on
hearing these cock and bull stories, silently nodding our heads and continue
to live as a low born Shudra? If we have any self-respect, should we not
destroy all these non-sense? There is not a single god with good traits.
You take the case of Shiva. He had five heads. Another God Brahma also
had five heads. It is said that Shiva’s wife Parvathi got confused. She was not
able to distinguish her husband as both had five heads. She complained to her
husband about her difficulty. Shiva was perturbed. He decided to take
immediate action. You know what he did. He picked off one of the heads of
Brahma to enable Parvathi to recognise him without difficulty. What do you
think about this story of god? Do you think that Shiva behaved well?
Let me ask the Brahmins why four or five heads are needed for gods. Is it
necessary to have so many heads to eat food? They say that the four heads
face four directions and the fifth head on the top of the head is to look at the
sky! Where are authentic proofs for all these? These persons of Hinduism
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 178

simply go on spinning fictitious stories.
The creator of god said that there was no shape for god. He did not say
that gods had so many heads. He said that god was only a philosophy. God is
said to be beyond all senses. The Alwars, Nayanmars, and Mahans, did not
say that god had a definite shape. Then how did the present gods get the
definite shapes? How it is right to keep the idols in temples calling them as
gods? Is not the creator of the god a scoundrel? Is he not a fool, who gave a
definite shape to god? If it is true that god cannot be seen or touched, is there
any meaning in offering food for him and that too six times a day? Because
there are fools to spend money for all these, these scoundrels go on
swindling. Who sees the god eating? Does god need food six times to exist?
Which person places a morsel of food into the mouth of god? Does the god
digest the food? Did any one see the god going to the latrine at least once
day? Who has seen him pass urine? He does not move. Then where does he
attend to nature-calls? Those who do not think and ask are considered as
great. They are deemed as theists.
If it is true that god does not want anything, why should these Brahmins
make the gods marry? What for a wife, children and so on?
One god has two wives. Some have thousands. Why do gods need
thousands of wives? They do not think about the answer. They don’t leave
the matter as it is. They celebrate the marriage not once but regularly every
year. Our people who devotedly attend the marriage of gods do not ask them
as to what happened to the marriage performed previous year. Did the wife
elope with somebody? Or did she die of any disease? Or is there any law that
the marriages of gods are valid only for one year? Who cares to question all
these? What a fool one must be to simply go on attending the marriage of
gods every year. You see how we are made fools. If it is true that god is the
embodiment of virtues, how could we see the gods having relations with
prostitutes?
Gods Subramania, Shiva, Vishnu, Krishna all are having concubines as
per the Epics! Does anyone ask why they need concubines apart from so
many wives!
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 179

These fellows who created gods do not leave with that. They have written
many stories about their conduct and character. How horrible it is for their
gods to behave as immoral wretches.
Some gods are said to have forced the wives of others to have intercourse
with them. In some cases they were exposed. Some gods had to eat the
humble pie. Some received severe punishments also. All these are created in
the name of gods. You can still see such things celebrated as a festival in
Hindu temples. The god at Srirangam comes to Uraiyur in search of a
prostitute. These Brahmins carry the god on their shoulders. They wait for the
whole night. Again in the morning they carry the stone idol back to
Srirangam. This is celebrated as a festival every year. Just like this during
festivals you find the gods going to the houses of prostitutes. No god could be
considered as having any respect for morality. The character and conduct of
Shiva as well as Vishnu is pictured very badly. Do you think the people could
raise their standards by using these gods? Is there any possibility of having a
society with high moral standards? Should there be a wife and a prostitute for
gods? How could a sensible man agree to all these morass of lie and deceit in
Hinduism.
Is the God Kind
They say that god is the embodiment of love and kindness. You go and
see the gods. Gods have knives, swords, spears, bows and arrows, hammers,
sharp weapons and all sorts of fearful instruments in their hands. Are the
Hindu gods deceits, robbers, plunderers and murderers? How are we to agree
with the statement that the gods are kind? If it is true that Shiva is the
embodiment of love, why should he have a spear in his hand? (Laughter). I
am not telling these for mere fun. You, the Dravidians must all think of these
things very seriously. You must know to what extent we are made fools. We
live as men with all these gods. What for these gods? Why these incarnations
of gods? Why a god is born to Shiva? What for a Vishnu as god? What have
they done?
It is said that they killed many people. It is described that they killed the
Asuras, Rakshasas and crores of people; even as a butcher kills innumerable
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 180

goats. Are the gods butchers and murderers? They call themselves as gods. In
the epic Ramayana it is said that Rama killed crores of people. He is said to
have lessened the burden of the earth (Booma Devi). What work is mainly
alloted to gods in Hinduism? They are merely to kill, murder and massacre. If
you begin to think, you will realise many absurdities about these gods,
temples and religion.
It is only the fools who would hesitate to think as though these matters are
not concerned to them.
You see how we, the Tamilian people were duped all these years. How
many have become fools? You should all think over at least now, as to what
benefit we derive by these Hindu shastras and scriptures dealing about the
temples and gods.
These Brahmins could have created a single purana (Mythology) for
Hinduism. There are innumerable puranas. They talk of Ramayana. Suddenly
they talk about Kandapurana, Vinayaga purana and so on. What are all these
Puranas? You take any purana. It is a collection of obscene, vulgar and
unbelievable things.
They talk high of Hindu gods. But no god is found to be free from
obscenity, immorality and brutal behaviours. Should there be not some
amount of decency and truth, at least in the matter of gods. It does not matter,
if Brahmin had created deceitful things in the name of god; it does not matter
much if they had succeeded in hoodwinking the ignorant people in the past.
But I feel very much about the caricature of all gods as rogues, immoral
wretches and murderers. Is there one god that a man could willingly accept?
In our society we have so many courts, police forces and jails. Are all
these to the credit of the so many Hindu gods?
So I wish to rightly say that it is because of all these Hindu gods our
people have become fools. It is these Hindu gods which are responsible for
the increasing immorality and horrible crimes. Our people are today bold
enough to do anything, whether just or unjust whether good or bad.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 181

If we all attempt to bring in a change by making everyone a rationalist,
we will definitely have a better society. Once a man becomes a rationalist, he
will not think of harming others. A rationalist will feel for others. He would
think his neighbour as a human being, like himself. What is it we find today?
Those who exploited others are still having more and more opportunities to
exploit. They go on with their anti-social activities. So I request you to think
over the real cause for the ruination of our lives. What is the reason for our
inhuman life? What led to the stagnation of progress and advancement of so
many millions of our Tamilian people.
Is it not the creation of god, religion, shastras, customs, vedas and
spiritual heads of Hinduism, that are responsible for our degradation and
backwardness? Don’t mistake me for blaming. If you yourself think of all
these independently, you will agree with me.
When did the Brahmins create all these things? It would be more or less,
3000 years ago that gods were created. It is only after that, stories were
written about gods. I think Ramayana was written some 2000 years ago. The
advent of Christianity could be traced correctly as far back as 2000 years
only. Islam had its birth only 1500 years ago.
Primitive Man
What kind of person was the primitive man? Do you know how man was
living some 5000 years ago? Did he wear any dress? He used leaves to cover
his body. He was roaming in forests. He ate green vegetables and raw fruits.
He ate the fish without cooking. He ate the raw flesh of the animals. He did
things according to his knowledge and experience. He did not have, advanced
education as we have now. When it is so, the intelligent people make use of
our ignorance and concoct hopelessly unbelievable things. All things beyond
human comprehension and belief are found in every religion. Religion is
made out of falsehoods and lies. You take Ramayana, Bharatham, Hindu
religion, Saivism, Vaishnavism, Christianity and Islam. There is no religion
which fully adumbrates truths because the period of birth of all those
changed, there is some difference in the quality and nature of lies. Supposing
any one ventures to create a new religion now, he will do so only according
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 182

to the existing circumstances. He will base the new religion on more facts,
reasons and advanced knowledge. The creators of religions in the past based
them on ignorance.
In the past a god was a ‘must’ for any religion and that god must have
supernatural powers. Hinduism started like that. From Hinduism other
religions copied. That is all. Tomorrow the Brahmins would say that a great
spiritual man is able to make the cow dung as sandal paste. No one would
think how it is possible. Why does he say so and dupe us? He would even
blabber that one is capable of making the dead man come back to life. Just
like these, they go on bluffing. They talk of miracles by god men. They
attribute abnormal qualities to ‘mahans’. Their point is to stress the greatness
of divinity, spiritual leaders, and mahans. On the whole all these fellows are
liars.
Epics
You consider what is Ramayana or Bharatham. Without bluffs they
cannot exist. They say that Rama was born to Dasaratha. It is said that
Dasaratha lived for 60,000 years and that he had 40,000 wives. Where is he
now? Won’t we ask? How could a man live for 60,000 years? Why should a
man live 60,000 years? Just to bluff, he wrote that he lived for 60,000 years.
Why should a man marry 40,000 wives? What is the necessity? Is it ever
possible? Supposing he sees a wife a day, it will take 300 years more to see
her again. What will she do for 300 years? Do you think she will remain a
virtuous wife? What sort of story is this? How to believe such things? How
could one can manage with 40,000 wives? Is he a machine? Should there be
no limit for uttering blatant lies?
With all these absurdities how could one take Rama as a god? Should
there be no decency in creating gods? Should they not give some respect to
gods at least? What has Rama done? He performs the Aswametha Yagam.
Did he do that at least as a decent human being? Is it decent to part with the
wife for nothing and make her bring forth children in the immoral way that
‘Yagas’ are to be performed? I am not telling anything of my own. That is
what is said about the ‘Yaga’ in the Ramayana itself.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 183

It is clearly stated that married women were entrusted to Brahmins for
physical relationship. The women took in the semon of Brahmins and gave
birth to children. Even for this, Brahmins were to be offered a lot of money.
This is how Dasaratha got children. How to say that Rama was born to him?
It is written that he got children by the Brahmin’s bodily relationship with his
wives.
Rama is said to be the incarnation (Avatar) of god. His birth is stated in
detail. The Brahmins made Rama’s mother Kausalya naked. She was asked to
lie on the ground. A horse was brought. Its penis was inserted into the vagina
of Kausalya. This is how the Aswametha (Horse) Yagam was performed.
You need not believe my words. You yourself read the Ramayana. You will
find all these. Why do I talk of all these in detail? You should know how
ignorant people were in those days. The Brahmins created gods intelligently
exploiting the ignorance of the Dravidian people. Are we now still as
ignorant as those people. So I like to categorically state, without hesitation,
that gods were the creations out of the imagination of the Brahmins.
We can atleast accept Ramayana, if it is said as an imaginary story. Even
granting that Rama’s birth is not so bad, should not the Brahmins make
Rama, a decent and virtuous man? What have they done? They say that he
killed this fellow-that fellow Ratchasas-Asuras- (Dravidians) Vali and many
others whom he met. You know why? You should all hear me carefully.
Please note whom he killed, and why he did so. Rama himself says, “Do you
know me ! I took birth to massacre all the enemies of Brahminis!”
Gentlemen, you can read this in the Ramayana.
If it is so, what should we understand? Is it not that Ramayana was
written by Brahmins to put us to shame and disgrace? Why should we be
called Shudras which means sons of prostitutes? Why should Rama kill the
Shudras? In that case why should we call ourselves as Hindus? Why should
we worship Rama as our God?
You see now what these Brahmins have done to safeguard themselves. He
was able to succeed because we, the Dravidians were fools.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 184

Ramayana was written to ridicule the Shudras! But had the Brahmins
succeeded in making Rama, as a respectful god? What happened to his wife?
She eloped with somebody. She lived with him and became pregnant. With
that she came back. There is a different Version about this. In another, it is
stated that Rama’s wife was kidnapped. If it is true that Rama was a god, how
could he be unaware of this? He ought to have known that someone would
come and knock away his wife by force. How could he go away leaving her
without proper protection? What precautionary steps had he taken to
safeguard his wife? Nothing! Was Rama real god with great powers? How
could he leave his wife, all alone and that too in the forest? As anticipated,
things happened. As though Sita had arranged earlier that person Ravana met
her. He asked her to accompany him. She quietly went with him. She did not
come back. She was four months pregnant when she came back.
Gentlemen, is this the way to write stories about gods? That is why we
don’t accept Ramayana. You see these Brahmins made Sita a deity to be
worshipped. Rama’s character you all know! He was made a god. The
Brahmins did not leave with that. They made his wife also a goddess.
What will a foreigner think of us? Would he hesitate to say our gods are
scoundrels? Our goddesses are prostitutes?
Should we not have some sense to think over? If we have any respect for
ourselves how could we tolerate all these? Why these absurd stories and
disgraceful gods?
Look at other gods as Krishna, Kandan, Murugan, Vinayaka, Siva,
Vishnu! Who are they? How were they born?
Birth of Krishna
You should know how Krishna was born. The Brahmins describe
fantastically about it. It seems Mahavishnu picked out two of his hairs. One
hair became Krishna and the other became his brother. One of the hairs was
white and other was black. Think over whether it is right, decent and proper
for the god to be born out of hairs. If you don’t believe me you yourself read
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 185

the puranas (Mythologies). Is this the way to create gods? How absurd it
looks!
Vinayaka Puranam
Now I will tell you how another god was created. The Brahmins created
Vinayaga as one of the Hindu gods. You will be interested to know how he
was born.
It seems Paramasivam and Parvathi went to the forest. There, they saw a
male elephant and a female elephant enjoying. On seeing this Parvathi
wanted to have intercourse with her husband as an elephant. He consented.
Both of them became elephants. They had intercourse and a male child was
born to them as an elephant cub. Do you agree with all these? Is this the
civilized way to create a god? This horrible god Vinayaka is seen everywhere
in Tamil Nadu. This god is more popular here. This god is of very recent
origin.
It is said that General of Narasimha Pallava went to Vaathaapi. From
there he imported this god to our place. You know Mr. T.P.
Meenakshisundaram. He is a learned scholar and a Vice – Chancellor. He has
conducted research and found out certain truths. Beyond any doubt, he has
said authentically that Vinayaga was brought as god from Vaathaapi in the
North. The business of importing a new god took place some 1200, 1300
years ago. Today it has become a big god for the Hindu world.
Subramania – God
What about Subramaniam? It is a Hindu god created some 2000 years
ago. There are two different versions given by Brahmins about the birth of
this god. One is found in the Ramayana itself. I am having the book here (The
book is handed over to the President of the meeting by Periyar and he reads
the concerned passage)
Gentlemen! See our people were not only fools then but also were devoid
of any self-respect.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 186

It is said the Devas went to Kailas, the abode of Lord Siva and prayed for
a commander (Senathipathi). It seems Siva agreed to fulfill the desires of the
Devas. The Devas went away. Siva met his wife Parvathi and said that they
should give a commander (Senathipathi). Both of them agreed. They both
started to have intercourse.
Is this the way to give a Senathipathi (Genral of Army)? Why should they
join together and enjoy for this sake. I am speaking with facts. All right, what
happened next. They prolonged their intercourse not for hours or days or
weeks or months. They were in the act of producing a Senathipathi for one
thousand years at a stretch. Even then they could not get a child. The poor
Devas were puzzled. They got terrified. At last they approached the couple
and expressed their reluctance. On seeing the Devas the couple asked for the
reason. The Devas feared if a child was born after 1000 years of intercourse it
might even destroy them. Paramasivan and Parvathi put a sudden stop to their
act of intercourse. This sudden break in the act of intercourse resulted in
secreting semon as if a river is in floods. The stream of their semon passed
through the rivers and reached the sea. As it floated on to the sea it seems that
the semon clot had six heads.
What is this calculation? Why it should have only six heads? Who is
going to explain?
The six headed – semon stream reached the River Ganges. There a
woman held it in her hands and embraced the river. It transformed into a
peculiar human being with six heads. The woman somehow gave her milk to
this god of six heads and named the child as Arumugam. This is the
interpretation given by Vaishnavites. It is found in Valmiki Ramayana.
The Saivites give a different interpretation. In that the Devas after waiting
for 1000 years met Sivan and Parvathi. The Devas prostrated and asked them
to stop, the intercourse. Siva refused. He said that if he stops the semon
would rush out with great force. He advised the Devas to get up and hold
their hands. They did accordingly. He stopped. Semon came out. All the
Devas received the semon in their hands. They asked what to do? Siva asked
them to drink. The Devas drank and they instantly became pregnant. Again
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 187

they became worried and appealed to Siva. He showed a way out to abort. He
asked them to go and have a bath in a particular tank. They anxiously went to
the tank and had their bath. Abortion took place.
Gentlemen, all these are vividly described in the Mythologies (puranas).
After the abortion a few drops of Siva’s semon trickled down and they
became the god Subramania. He is also called as Kandan. In Sanskrit Kandan
means semon. In Tamil we call ‘Kandan’. In the Sanskrit it is called
‘skandan’ and it means excretion, that which is ejected. This Arumugam or
Murugan to Tamils is Subramanian to Brahmins.
See, what respect the Brahmins give to the gods. The Brahmins created
gods in these repugnant ways.
Brahma
Look at the behavior of another god Brahma. It is stated that he married
his own daughter called Saraswathi. It is so said in the Mythologies
(Puranas).
Brahma created a girl. She was beautiful. So he got passionated and
forced his daughter to fulfil his desire. She refused and took to her heels.
Brahma became a stag and his daughter too became a stag. They both ran to
god Siva. She complained to Siva about the behavior of her father. Siva
scolded Brahma. Brahma expressed that he got the desire on seeing her
beauty and that no one could control when love became lust. How could there
be no sense to distinguish between mothers, sisters or daughters? Siva
repeated the same to Brahma’s daughter. She realized that Siva too loved his
own daughter.
Gentlemen! Why should such stories be written? What for? Who gains by
these stories? It is enough if you understand that such stories were written in
those days when people were uneducated. They could not think of anything
deeply. Today people have all facilities to gain knowledge. They are able to
think and reason out.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 188

I hope it is now clear to you that these puranas are not true. They are to be
condemned as obscene, vulgar and detrimental to the progress of man.
Self-Respect (Rationalist) propaganda is not for diverting the attention of
the people. The motto of rationalism is to call a spade a spade. There are
people as Sankarachari, Madhvachari and others to divert the people from
progress. Sitting in a high place, these “spiritual” heads command respect.
People are made to believe them. That is why we form a separate
organisation to enlighten the people. Without our propaganda, man cannot
become intelligent.
In one of my meetings I had to come in contact with Kunrakkudi
Adigalar. In his presence I spoke about the gods and puranas. I denied the
existence of god and expressed that only a fool would believe in god. While
he addressed he said that he believed in god. He blamed me for spreading
atheism; but finally he threw the blame on those who created gods in those
ways. He was not able to meet me by his arguments. He slipped away
cleverly.
How could any one denounce the rationalist, when all the puranic stories
are written so badly? The matter of dispute now is why such stories were
written some 2000 years back. The people in those days were fools. But even
now they build temples. They create gods. They spread religion. All these
they do, thinking that people are even today fools. Why should they be
envious of our rationalist movement? We are doing selfless service.
To this day, we don’t have our government without Brahmin domination.
The kings who ruled in the past gave their full support to the Brahmins. They
behaved like slaves. What were our Chera, Chola, Pandiya kings doing? They
highly respected the Brahmins.
It is only in this century things are changing. Even when I was a child, the
ladies believed that the very sight of a Brahmin was a blessing. There was a
feeling that the presence of Brahmins was to make them reach heaven. You
may not be aware of all these now. I am telling of the past. When touching
the cowdung is considered as sacred, even now, there is no wonder in
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 189

considering the Brahmin as sacred then.
Atheists
How many changes we see in the world? It is estimated that the
population of the world is about 400 to 450 crores (in 1971). Of them nearly
125 crores of people say that they do not believe in god. About 100 crores of
people take pride in calling themselves as rationalists. In Soviet Russia 35
crores of people are atheists. They have demolished churches. They put the
Bible into fire. They murdered religious priests. What is the result? You must
know this. There is no poor man or rich man. All are equals. All are happy. In
China out of 85 crores of people 75 crores of people are Buddhists. In Burma
2 crores of people are Buddhists. In Ceylon two third of the population, are
Buddhists. In Siam three fourth of the population are Buddhists. All these
people deny the existence of god. They are non-believers in god. They are
atheists.
There are a number of Rationalist Associations in Europe. In Germany,
Spain, Greece, it has become a sign of civilisation to have Rationalist
Associations, Research Centres, Truth seekers Association, Thinkers
Association, Atheists Association and so on. At every place there are many
lakhs of people as members of these organisations. I had been to all these
places. At Paris I stayed in the atheists association. They had published a
magazine. You find a cross being cut with a sword. It is to represent that the
cross is only a fanciful doll. God is being killed. It is only the Islam that has
limited itself in uttering things in the name of religion. They care more for
social unity.
Festivals
We have plenty of temples in India. For every mile you have atleast 5 or 6
temples. In every village you have temples. There are even 20,30, 100 gods
in every temple. Everyday pooja is performed 3,5,6 times to all these gods.
Apart from this, every year you have festivals 3 or 4 times. Youths long
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 190

eagerly to see the girls in the festival times. The girls dress up well and come
to temples and festivals to woo the lads. It is their meeting that is called
festivals. A few years ago to attract crowds, the prostitutes were invited to the
temples. In a big temple festival, even 100 prostitutes were invited. Every
prostitute used to go to the temple festival in her place. It was the old custom.
Nowadays this custom is gradually fading out. We don’t allow our women
folk to go out freely. They have the freedom to go to the temples and attend
the festivals. What could they do? The males keep quiet when the ladies go to
the temples only. They have no other chance to meet youths. So it is natural
that temple festivals afford good opportunities for young boys and girls.
Moreover all things needed to attract large crowds are arranged. Why so
much of publicity for god? Why so much pomp and show? Why these
festivals at all?
We, the Rationalists are against these temples, gods, and festivals. We are
for making a better change. How is it possible? We believe that propaganda
is the only way. We convince the people by arguments. We enlighten them
with facts. Without this there is no scope for emancipation. So we awaken the
people. Some people feel sorry because we attack gods. They don’t realize
that it is not possible to bring in the needed change without touching the evils
of god, temple and religion. Look at the fastly changing world. Many changes
are taking place rapidly. We are in the last rung of the ladder of progress. We
were educationally very backward. Before 2000 years ago only one out of a
thousand was educated. Even that fellow was a Brahmin. He too did not get
proper education. He only learnt by hearing and memorization. He knew not
writing or reading.
What do you think of Sanskrit? Brahmins talk proudly of their languages.
Is there a popular script? They talk high of vedas. That too has no script. It is
all mere sounds. They are improving only recently.
Population
When Jesus was born, the world population was 20 crores only. In 1460
A.D. it was 47 crores. It took nearly 1500 years for the population to double.
In 1800 A.D. it rose to 74 crores. The population increased because of
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 191

medical facilities. In 1914 the world population was 165 crores. After this the
population of the world began to increase quickly. Every fifteen years the
population increased two times. In 1955 it rose to 360 crores in 1964 it rose
to 380 crores. In 1970 the world population is estimated to be 400 crores.
During the last century the world population increased rapidly, because of the
advancement in science and medicine. In Tamilnadu it has risen from 4
crores to 5 crores. Now only the human population is safe and increasing
because of the fall in the death rate.
Today the average life of man here is estimated as 45 years. In Western
countries it is 70 years. It is found out that we will be able to live for 75 years
atleast in the next 30 years. A European will be able to live more than 100
years. These are figures calculated on average basis. Many people do not
know the reason for this increase.
In the olden days, if cholera broke out in any village, it would result in the
death of all the people in the village. Now it is reported that in a big town 8
people died of cholera. The medical authorities are taken to task. They will be
questioned as to why they did not take precautionary measures. It is all due to
the advancement in science that care is taken about the people and their
health. It was not so in the past. Remember one occurrence in my place allied
Thathambatti. It is my mother’s native place. When cholera broke out about
50 houses were deserted. Almost all died. Even today you find only 3 or 4
houses there.
In those days, when cholera broke out in Salem nearly 2000 to 3000
people died in one year. When I was the Chairman of Erode in one year, 400
people died of cholera. Now such deaths are rare. Why? The health
authorities take precautionary steps. Canals are dug. The water is filtered and
purified before supplying to the public. Chemicals are also diluted in the
water. Injections are compulsorily given to the people. As a result of all these
no one dies contagious diseases. In those days, if any one had an attack of
T.B. he would have to die. Today, it is not so. Many cases are treated. There
was no cure for many diseases in those days. So the deaths were more. Today
almost all diseases are cured by doctors in the hospitals.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 192

Gentlemen! Don’t you read news about the great developments in the
field of science and medicines? Nowadays Doctors are able to replace the
kidney and heart also. They are not false. You will find more wonders in the
future. In the year 2000 you will find people living upto to the age of 100
years. In due course man will live for 150 years also. Man is going to gain
many things out of rationalism.
You see I am alive even after 92 years. Many people advised me to take
rest. I became angry. Who needs rest? The rich people need rest. Those who
want to parade themselves as big people need rest. Why should I take rest? I
think idleness itself is a disease. So far as I am concerned, I do not have
adequate facilities. Wherever I go I eat whatever is available. I spend many
nights in the train. I am alive till 92 years. If you begin to think of the old
blind ways, I must have been dead long ago. I am one who boldly beats the
god with chappals. How could such a person be alive? By this time I must
have lost my eyes. I must be suffering from many diseases. What do you see?
I am still hale and hearty. There are remedial measures nowadays for all
kinds of diseases.
I had urine trouble once. The doctors cured it by operation. I knew not
anything about it. The doctors asked me whether I like to be operated. I said
to them that they could do anything if they had full confidence. I was in my
bed. I was asleep. They took me to the operation theatre. They struggled for
two and half hours and then brought me back and laid me on the bed. After
one or two hours I became conscious. I knew not that I was operated. I
enquired about it. They told me that everything was over. I came to know
about everything only the next day. How did all these happen? They
mentioned some medicine. It was injected. I became unconscious. Everything
was over. Just like this medicine, many medicines are discovered every day.
But what about us? We are still worshipping the grinding stone, the idol
of lingam as god. We perform marriage to it. We take the idol to the
prostitute house. We pull the chariot of that God. What are we going to
discover with all these foolish things?
Lakhs of Rupees are spent for that. The chariot weights 150 tons. Nearly
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 193

5000 people are needed to pull it. They are paid two rupees each by wages. In
this year of 1971 the government also supports it. See how foolish we are.
Where is salvation for us?
So, my dear comrades, we must also try to become civilized human
beings. For that we must get rid of religion, god, shastras and blind customs.
The puranas should be torn to pieces and put in the dust bins. We must
realize that there is no power greater than man. There is nothing that is real in
god.
Gentlemen, I have spoken for a long time. Yet I have not covered many
things. You don’t have stories like these anywhere else. You have the
Brahmins and Shudras only here - in Tamil Nadu, India.
Even the Sankarachari accepts now that all these stories are not for the
educated people. They are for the uneducated people only. It is to make them
believe in god that such stories are written.
If we remain silent and believe things blindly, you will have no progress.
The Brahmins would reap the harvest. That is why we educate the people
through Self-Respect Propaganda. We appeal to the people to shed their blind
beliefs. We want to make people of our Rationalist country to live with
dignity and comfort as others in the world.Lastly, I tell you not to believe
what I say. You apply your mind. Think for yourself. If you feel that what I
say is right, accept it and turn a new leaf in your life from tomorrow. If you
like to become a member of our association, don’t go to the temples. Don’t
wear caste marks. Don’t pay a pie to the Brahmins. Put an end to their
monopoly and exploitation. With these words I conclude my speech.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 194

On Social JusticeWhy Communal G.O.?
Address of THANTHAI PERIYAR at a public meeting
on 13.08.1950 organized by all parties
ar President, respectable ladies and my dear comrades!
You are all aware of the clandestine conjectures and
efforts taken by a section of the people to scrap the Communal G.O.
(Government Order).
I issued an appeal to observe ‘Hartal’ (An agitation by closure of all
shops) tomorrow (14.08.1950) completely. I appealed to the students to
abstain from attending the schools and colleges. I appealed to the merchants
and businessmen to keep their shops closed tomorrow. I appealed to all the
people in our State to participate in the procession in large numbers to
demonstrate the public opinion in support of the Communal G.O.
Some people have come forward to criticise me for giving such an appeal.
They mistake me!. They allege that I intend foaming up some sort of serious
trouble to them by some agitation. Even some ministers have talked like that.
Congressmen attribute some political motives. They write as they like. Let
them do anything as they please. I am not at all bothered.
I wish to tell you that you should not do anything just because I appeal or
just because they say something. Do not blindly submit to what all I say or
take everything they say straight away. You please think over and find out
the truth yourselves. You are rational beings. You please think over the pros
and cons, good and bad, right and wrong and then come to your own
judgement. If you find there is reason, justice and truth in what I say, then do
as your conscience dictates.
The communal representation of the Dravidian Race is not a talk of very
recent origin. It has been the raging issue even in 1916. Even in those days
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 195

our leaders, our elders and wise people demanded communal representation;
ensuring justice for all communities should be implemented in the field of
education and in the matter of giving jobs. It was to be based on the
population and the respective strength of the various communities. One thing
you will have to notice is that those who raised such a demand were for
sometime in the Congress party. In other words they were in the Congress till
they realized the importance of communal representation. When they found
that there can be no communal justice meted out to all communities through
the Indian National Congress they came out of it. The fact that the Congress
party stood for the welfare and progress of one particular community of
Brahmins, came to lime light. Having failed in their attempts to set the
Congress house in order, they revealed the truth that the Congress party was
eternally against the interests of the Backward and the Scheduled Caste
communities of Dravidian Race. They came forward to champion the cause
of the Backward and the Scheduled castes, who were all along been groping
in the darkness for peace, progress, and prosperity. They raised the voice for
communal justice. People began to assert for their rights strongly. This is
what took place here in South India.
In the North India, the same demand was raised in 1900 itself. They
asserted for communal representation in all walks of life based on population.
It is the Muslims who first demanded the introduction of communal
representation. They were the pioneers to agitate for the same. It may be that
many of us are not aware of this part of the history even now. But atleast
some of the elders could certainly recollect what actually took place. Some of
us know the matter clearly. The Congress opposed the Muslims for
demanding the communal representation policy to be implemented. The
Congress party failed. The then British government of India brought in a new
scheme granting separate electorates for Muslims. The British accepted the
policy of communal representation even as early as 1900. They came forward
to render justice for all communities. They felt rightly that the communal
representation policy is the only boon to help all the communities. At that
time the capital of India was at Kolkatta (Calcutta). Majority of the residents
of Kolkatta (Calcutta) were Muslims. So it was very easy for the Muslims to
gain success. Somehow the Muslims succeeded in getting separate
electorates. The Britisher’s gave the green signal by supporting the
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 196

communal representation policy for all communities in all walks of life.
Subsequently the Congress started what is called the Swadesi Movement.
The inner motive of this movement was to create a strong opposition to the
granting of the separate electorates to the Muslims. It was a move against the
splitting of Bengal. The gullible people were misled to believe what the
Congress said. They had very high hopes of Swadesi Movement. They
expected miracles to happen, not being aware of the real motive behind the
movement. They did not realize that it was not right to deny the Muslims of
their legitimate share. What led to this sort of ignorance? Even now many of
our people are ignorant of the fundamental principles of politics. Common
man in this country believes what the leaders and others say. They are not
sufficiently educated to know things. It was much worse then. They straight
away believed that the Swadesi movement was a patriotic movement. But the
Muslims were strong and united. They faced the strong opposition of the
Congress resolutely and succeeded in securing their rights.
Even in the year 1910 separate constituencies were allotted to Muslims
and Hindus. Further problems arose when they were bifurcated. It was a very
difficult thing to evolve the constituencies on this basis. Finally
constituencies were divided as Muslim constituencies first and the rest were
called as Non-Muslim constituencies. The Congress which was against the
Muslims met with failure. Yet it was not prepared to accept the defeat. There
was no other go for the Congress than to yield. Atlast the Congress accepted
on the condition that the British should give up the idea of splitting Bengal.
This was the agreement. Somehow the Muslims succeeded in getting separate
electorates in 1910. Even after this the Congress continued to pursue its anti-
Muslim policy. This resulted in strengthening the hands of the Muslims. The
Muslim League grew up speedily as a powerful political body, opposed to the
Congress. The League was able to withstand the onslaughts of the Congress.
All efforts taken by the Congress against the League ended in a dismal
failure. It has only led to the strengthening of League. Ultimately, the
Congress entered into a pact with the League at Lucknow in 1916 and that is
the famous Lucknow Pact in the history of Congress. That pact has been
responsible to enable the league demand a separate sovereign state, which is
now called as Pakistan.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 197

It is after all these developments in the North that the Dravidian leaders
here thought aloud and realized the need to demand separate representation
for us. Muslims who were a minority there were able to get a considerable
share in all fields on account of their solidarity. Their determination and
struggle fetched them their rights easily.
When such being the state of affairs in the North, here in South India
those who are ninety percent of the total population have somehow forfeited
their rights in all walks of life and almost all the posts were monopolised by a
particular community called Brahmins which was, after all only 3% of the
population. The majority (Dravidians) was dominated by the minority
(Aryans) here. Their fate is very pitiable. They are very backward in all walks
of life.
Sir P Theagaraya was a very powerful Congresseman and he was the
secretary of the Congress session held at Madras. Till 1916, Sir P Theagaraya
and Dr. T.M. Nair, a versatile scholar and public worker were not in terms.
They were opposed to each other. They realized that by their mutual quarrels
and enmity, Brahmins were gaining against the interests of the non-brahmins.
They both realized that Brahmins were foaming up bitterness among them to
exploit that situtation in favour of the Brahmins. They both resolved to forget
the bitter past and united together and laid the foundation for the Non-
Brahmin movement. Since they had no courage to call themselves as
Dravidians they named the movement as the ‘South Indian Liberal
Federation’ which was popularly known later as the Justice Party. As the
principles of the S.I.L.F. were very reasonable and just, the movement gained
the popular support of the Non-Brahmins. They participated in the first
elections held in 1920 and scored a resounding victory. I was in the Congress
party at that time.
The Brahmins in the Congress party were terribly jealous of the growing
popularity of the Justice party (S.L.I.F). They had to counteract the growing
influence of the Non-Brahmins in the political sphere. They sought the advice
of Mr. Gandhi. At that time, Mrs. Annie Besant was very popular in Indian
Politics. The reasons for her popularity was that she was a foreigner and her
services were mainly to the advancement of the Brahmin community. Yet the
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 198

Iyengar Brahmins hated her, because it was the Iyer community that was
much benefited by her services. She ignored the Iyenger Brahmins and
encouraged the Iyers. Sadasiva Iyer, Mani Iyer, Sir.C.P.Ramasami enjoyed
the favour of Mrs. Annie Besant. This was hated by the Iyengars. They feared
that the Saivite Brahmins would supersede them. They were afraid that the
Saivite Brahmins would one day monopolise all fields leaving the
Vaisnavites in the back waters. They resolved to seek a new leader who
would work for their welfare. They chose Mr. C. Rajagopalachari, who was
considered a clever person. They went to Mr. Gandhi for his advice and
consent. It is in this way that Rajagopalachari (Rajaji) became the leader of
Brahmins. For what Gandhi has done to Rajaji he made Mr. Gandhi a very
big leader in South India. It is at that time, I joined the Congress party under
the persuasion of Rajaji. The constructive programme of the Congress was
very much appealing to me. It attracted a large number of people of eminence
towards the Congress party. Many became the followers of Gandhi.
What are the things Gandhi preached to us? First, Hindu – Muslim unity.
Second the eradication of untouchability. Third, the Khaddar cloth scheme
for the uplift of the poor. Fourth, the prohibition. Apart from these Gandhi
stated clearly that Congress party would not seek any post by contesting the
elections. I sincerely believed that the Congress is primarily a Social Reform
Movement. I worked for the Congress very sincerely. Naturally the Congress
became very popular.
When the Justice party won the elections and formed the cabinet, the
Congress carried on intensive anti-propaganda. The Congress did not reckon
the good works of the Justice party as great. They stooped to follow very
cheap politics. They had lowered their political levels. They attacked the
Justice party unnecessarily. They made a big fuss about the salary of the
ministers. They heckled them for travelling in the first class by train. They
talked of their eye glasses, caps, etc. By these, they wanted to win the hearts
of the poor people. They posed as if they were the only champions of the
poor. By these methods they managed to dupe the public and in 1926
elections the Justice party faced a defeat in the elections.
The Congress managed to form an alternative government with the
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 199

independents led by Dr. Subbarayan. Ranganatha Mudaliar and Arogiasamy
Mudaliar were his colleagues in the cabinet. But it could not remain in power
for long. Except Dr. Subbarayan, all the other ministers submitted
resignations. Later Mr. S Muthaiah Mudaliar and Sethurathina Iyer became
members of the cabinet. The Justice party supported this ministry. This
cabinet did a lot of good things to the people. What all the Justice party was
hesitant to do during its period, this cabinet boldly implemented. Of all the
good things done by this cabinet was the implementation of the Communal
G.O. which is most important and praiseworthy. Without caring for the
opposition in many quarters, Mr.Muthaiah Mudaliar boldly passed the order,
ensuring communal justice to all the Communities belonging to Dravidian
Race.
For this good act of meeting justice to all communities, the Brahmins took
cudgels against Mr. Muthaiah Mudaliar. They described him as a ‘Rakshasa’
(Virulent Savage). They defeated him twice in the subsequent elections. But
Mr.Mudaliar was not at all perturbed. He knew the consequences and boldly
acted to lift the suppressed sections (Dravidians) of the society. He took the
defeats as the reward for his good acts.
Being the pioneer of the Communal G.O., he has through out his life
dedicated himself to safeguard the same from dangers. He took all the
attempts to resist the efforts made to invalidate the G.O. either by legal
methods or otherwise. He stood firm to save the G.O., whenever there was
danger by the enemies. That is why you find him now very much worried.
You find some people criticise him for this. If he has no right to fight for the
G.O. I ask, who else has the responsibility? Let the critics understand this
much.
I was in the Congress when the Communal G.O.was first sought to be
introduced in 1921 by the Justice Party. Even though I was in the Congress
then, I had a very unshakable faith in the communal representation of the
Dravidian Race and, I had a specific understanding with the leaders that the
Congress would implement the same. In those days, Thiru.Vi.Ka.
(Kalyanasundaram) and Dr.Varadarajulu Naidu despite being Dravidians,
were opposed to the communal representation inside the Congress. But I was
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 200

very strong and stubborn. For my sake Mr. Rajagopalachari also supported
me. His view was that some seats atleast should be reserved to the Non-
Brahmins. He did not totally agree with the communal G.O. So far as I am
concerned, I did not attach much importance to the same. If anything serves
the purpose it was enough for me. That is why I agreed to the proposal of
Rajaji.
Even before this understanding with Rajaji, we started in 1917 the Madras
Presidency Association to counteract the activities of the Justice Party and
Non-Brahmin movement. We began to work against the Justice Party. Mr.
Kesava Pillai was the President of the Association. Myself and Mr. Govinda
Doss were the Vice-Presidents. Dr.Varadarajulu Naidu and Thiru.Vi.Ka.were
the Secretaries. It was clearly accepted that fifty percent should be reserved
for the Non-Brahmins.
But this was not acceptable to Messrs. Kasturi Ranga Iyengar, S
Satyamurthi Iyer, Srinivasa Iyengar and other leaders of the Brahmin caste in
the Congress. They accused Mr. Rajaji for having extended his support to me.
They thought Rajaji was afraid of my influence. They even went to the extent
of overthrowing Rajaji. They formed another national organization with
Vijayaragavachari as President, myself, Rajaji and T.Prakasam were eleced
as secretaries. Messrs. Kasturi Ranga Iyengar, and V.O.Chidambaram were
elected as Vice-Presidents. Even in this it was clearly understood that
everyone should talk of nationalism after getting the due share for all the
communities in national matters. The quota for the Non-Brahmins was
tentatively fixed at 50%. This national association gained the mass support
because we announced 50% to the Non-Brahmins. But Mr. Rangasami
Iyengar and Mr. S Satyamurthi became very jealous. They secretly planned
and announced the working programme of the Congress and their plans were
accepted by the working committee. I think it is clear to you that the
Congress too accepted the principle of proportionate representation to ensure
justice to all the communities based on the population.
In the year 1924, the Tamilnadu Congress session took place at
Thiruvannamalai. I presided over the conference. In that conference
Rangasamy Iyengar and Srinivasa Iyengar, induced their followers to attack
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 201

Sir.P.Theagaraya Chettiar and other Justice Party leaders vehemently. They
used very abusive language. I was very much provoked at their indecent
behaviour. Myself and Mr.S.Ramanathan decided to pay them in their own
coin. Being the President I permitted Mr.Ramanathan to speak. He
condemned the Brahmins as communalists. Next Mr. Shafe Muhamed came
forward to speak. He attacked Ramanathan without rhyme or reason. Next
Messrs Annamalai Pillai and Venkatakrishna Pillai came forward and replied
to the speech made by Shafe Muhamed. I mention this to enlighten you that I
remained in the Congress even though I had difference of opinion with the
Brahmin leaders.
Another session of the Congress party was held at Kancheepuram in
1925. Mr. Thiru. Vi.Ka. presided over the same. A day before the conference,
I convened the meeting of the Non-Brahmins at Kancheepuram itself.
Messrs. Muthaiah Mudaliar, Sir.R.K.Shanmugam Chetty, Vellingiri Gounder,
Ramalinga Chettiar and other Non-Brahmin leaders attended the same. We
resolved to table a resolution in the Congress session demanding Communal
representation to be accepted. I myself took the resolution to the working
committee. The Brahmins objected stating that such a resolution should not
be permitted in the Congress.
I then argued, “In our propaganda we have criticised the Justice Party and
proclaimed that Congress is the only true representative of the Non-
Brahmins. I remind you that Congress had already accepted the principle of
communal representation. It has already fixed 50 percent as the reservation
quota for the Non-Brahmins. As such it is unfair to disallow the resolution”.
They did not reply to any of the arguments. They simply disallowed the
resolution. I once again rose up and argued that “as the Congress has now
decided to enter the Legislative Assembly, there is the necessity to take up
the resolution as relevant. It is known to all that Swarajist Party is the off
shoot of the Congress. When it contests the elections Congress is bound to
extend its support. As such the question of reserving 50 percent to the Non-
Brahmins is absolutely necessary. It is our moral obligation to assure all the
Non-Brahmins in view of the elections.“
After all these, the President said the resolution could be taken up in the
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 202

open session the next day. I agreed. That night the Brahmin leaders met
privately. They hatched a plan. Thinking that I would not have the support of
delegates they asked me to submit the signatures of atleast thirty delegates of
the conference. I accepted their terms, and I procured the support of 50
delegates. After all these, the resolution, was bluntly disallowed stating that it
was against the very fundamental principles of the Congress.
I was shocked to hear the verdict. I rose up and said, “You wanted the
support of 30 delegates. I got the support of 50 delegates. I was assured
yesterday that the resolution could be taken up for consideration today. In
spite of all these the resolution is simply disallowed. Is there any
justification? I want a clear verdict from the President”
Immediately the Brahmins started shouting. “ The President of the
conference has delivered his ruling and passed on to the next item in the
agenda. So nothing can be done now. You sit down, sit down” That is what
the Brahmins were able to do. I observed their behaviour and retorted saying
“This is a matter between me and the President. It is for him to say whether I
could press or not. If he says that I should not speak I will obey him. You
please keep quiet.”
The Brahmins again started to shout “Sit down, sit down”.
Facing them I said, “There is no use of your shouting like this. We can
also shout. If we do so your cries will not be louder. All of you may have to
get away”. Utter pandemonium prevailed in the conference. Then I realized
that there was no use of my remaining in the Congress any more. I walked
out of the conference. Many more followed me. It was for the sake of
Communal representation for the Dravidian Race that I left the Congress in
1925.
After that, my friend Rajaji and Thiru Vi.Ka. came to four or five times
and asked me to join the Congress once again. It was all because there were
others still in the Congress who wanted the Communal representation. Only
about 30 to 40 delegates left the Congress with me at Kancheepuram. Those
who remained in the Congress with my view had no courage to take a bold
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 203

decision.
The Self-Respect Movement was started by me soon after leaving the
Congress. I stood for political reform along with social reform. I was for the
eradication of all the social evils first. When Muthiah Mudaliar became a
Cabinet minister, he boldly brought in the Communal G.O. (Government
Order) I was the first person who felt very happy. I took it as my victory. If
only I had continued to be in Congress I would have gained many big
positions. Why did I leave the Congress? Was it for any post or power? No. I
did not even think that I would become a leader championing the Communal
G.O.
That is why we are all much worried about the Communal G.O. now. We
want to save it from the danger. We cannot afford to lose it. That is why we
are determined to fight for it. Please do not think that we are now agitating,
just because the High Court has held the Communal G.O. as invalid. Even if
the Supreme Court gives a judgement tomorrow setting aside the orders of
the High Court, we have got to agitate for the implementation of the G.O
fully in the fields. Why do I say so?
Even this G.O. does not ensure proportionate representation to all the
communities based on the population. By the present G.O. the Brahmins who
are three percent of the population get fourteen percent reservation. The
Christians who are three percent, get seven percent. The Non-Brahmins who
are eighty seven percent, get only seventy two percent. You please study
these figures. Could it be said that proportional representation is fully ensured
to all communities of Dravidian Race? Why should the Brahmins who are
only three percent of the population get fourteen percent by this G.O. Why
should the Non-Brahmins who are eighty percent get only seventy two
percent? Why should they lose? Is it not right on our part to agitate?
Another factor we have got to seriously consider is the Brahmin
dominance in the Government services. They are already monopolising the
services. In some departments their representation exceeds 60 percent to 70
percent. As senior officers they enjoy 90 percent of the posts. You would
have read the details of the facts and figures published in the - Tamil Daily
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 204

Newspaper “Viduthalai” during the past few days.
In spite of all these, we find the Government Order declared unlawful in
the Madras High Court. Even if it were declared lawful, do you think that it is
really a just G.O.? So it is clear that the ideal of rendering justice to all
communities is yet to be reached. We have been demanding this for the past
many years. That is why I say, that the ideal of rendering justice to all
communities is yet to be reached. We have been demanding this for the past
many years. That is why I say, that even if the Supreme Court passes an order
against the judgement of the Madras High Court, and declares the Communal
G.O. as perfectly valid, we will have no other go but to fight for the
fulfilment of our long standing demand for proportional representation in
proportion to population. Any day we have got to agitate and secure our
legitimate share. We cannot be docile. We should seek equal justice for all
communities based strictly on the population.
Another important fact we have got to realize is that this G.O. is now
implemented only at the State level. This G.O. is not binding on the Central
Government. Many malpractices are seen in the recruitment of personnel to
the services. The Brahmins are hunting for jobs from the State to the Centre.
At present the Centre is not heeding to the wholesome principle underlying
the Communal G.O. That is why you find Brahmin domination in almost all
the Central Government Services. Even big posts are held by them. They
enjoy 70, 80 percent of the posts in the States already. They are monopolising
almost all the posts in the Centre. They easily get the jobs as if the
Government is their own. They create vacancies easily. Sometimes one
Brahmin is sent on leave and another Brahmin is appointed temporarily. By
the time the leave expires another is sent on leave. Simultaneously steps are
taken to provide a post permanently. By that time he will be drawing Rs.500
a month. This is one of the ways Brahmins are helping their own community
to get jobs.
See what is the position in the Railways Department? Everything is in
their hands. Atleast in the foreign rule we were able to get some jobs. Today
the Railways are monopolised by Iyengar Brahmins. They have shifted the
recruiting office from Madras (CHENNAI) to Bomay. Almost all the
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 205

members of the selection board are Brahmins. When the matters are like this,
how is it possible for our people to get jobs? If at all we are in the majority it
is only in class four services as peons. Nowadays even for the peons’ posts
they are also competing. It is said that out of the 65000 peons 1300 are
brahmins.
Under these circumstances is there any justification for the Brahmins to
go to court? They say that they are denied admission in the educational
institutions. Let us see what the position is. They are undoubtedly enjoying
more than their legitimate share. When we peruse the figures given by the
government we are shocked. They are snatching away 90 percent of the
places in the colleges. They are today going to the court stating that they are
discriminated. They are not worried at the great injustice meted out to all
other communities. They even went to the Congress leader Mr. Gandhi
thinking that he would support them. But Gandhi replied, “Most of you are
already educated in large numbers. It will be appreciable if you could devote
for service to God for some time. Let the Non-Brahmins who have not been
educated so far, read”. This is what Gandhi said. The Brahmins were
disappointed. After some time Gandhi was shot dead.
I am telling this to make you realise that justice is on our side. The wise
world will ever support our cause. Imagine what will be our future, if we are
not worried about the communal G.O. now. What will be the fate of our next
generation? Now only we are considered as human beings fit to learn. It is the
Justice Party that opened our eyes. It is only after the G.O. that our
communities have started to enter the schools and colleges in large numbers.
Some of us were able to get some jobs. What was the position before the
advent of the Justice Party and the Communal G.O.? District Judges,
Tahsildars, Munsiffs, Sub-Inspectors were all Brahmins. Before the Justice
Party came to power the Non-Brahmins were cent percent uneducated. After
15 years of the Justice Party rule and even after independence and the
Congress Party rule, our literacy rate is below 10 percent.
If our Dravidian people are uneducated, it is not their fault. Can it be
proved that we are unfit for education? The real fact is that we were not given
sufficient facilities and encouragement. That is all. Most of the Sudras of
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 206

Dravidian Race are working classes. They were paid the wages needed for
their daily life. They are able to get higher wages only when the prices of
commodities went high. Under these circumstances, how can we expect the
son of a cartman, sweeper, cobbler, labourer, and others to read? Compare
the conditions of the Brahmins. Even a water supplying Brahmin’s son is able
to read in the B.A. (graduate) Class. He can become a Judge. For the
Brahmins it is their highest caste that remains an asset. The sacred thread they
wear is enough for them. We can see even poor Brahmins reading. Amongst
the Dravidians, only the sons of richmen like Zamindars and Mirasdars (Land
lords) are able to read. Even if we study with all these difficulties, we have no
future. We are denied jobs and seats in colleges. The principle of merit and
efficiency works against us. Even though our boys pass the examination and
are declared eligible for higher studies, they are not able to get admission. We
want our boy to read. Is it a crime?
There are many malpractices in the selection. This year (1950) 68000
appeared for the SSLC examination. 38000 students failed. Can it be said that
the failed candidates are unintlligent. How much money would have been
spent for studying upto SSLC (Secondary School final class)? Under these
circumstances, is it fair to turn out so many out of education? I would only
say that the teachers, who trained them were not able to observe honesty. It
may be that our examination system is also bad. After crossing one hurdle
after another, if our boys pass the examinations and seek admission in the
colleges for higher studies, they are denied admission stating that they lack
merit. Is this justice? When asked why we are not given jobs, they say that
we do not have sufficient qualification. If we want to read and get qualified,
we are denied scope, under the pretext that we do not score meritable marks.
Today marks are taken as the scale for measuring the talents. Can it be
said that those who score high marks are the only intelligent? Afterall more
marks are obtained by merely memorising. We know how marks are
obtained. Soon after the examination is over, people go with money to places
where the answer papers are corrected. Are not our ministers aware of this?
Why, some of them might have passed this way!. People are aware that
marks could be purchased for money. It is not open secret Brahmin boys are
helped in many ways. Brahmin teachers help them. Our boys know only to go
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 207

to the Vinayaka temple after the exam. The Brahmin boys do not go. They go
to their teachers, examiners who are mostly of their own community. Under
these circumstances is it right to determine the talents basing the marks
obtained?
In Russia students are given education for a certain period. They are
tested. After training they are given jobs. Doing a job well is the test there. It
is only here examinations are made difficult. It is not so in other countries.
Students are put to severe hardship here in the name of examinations.
Comrades, I say that every community should be alloted a definite
percentage of seats based on the population. If any community enjoys even
one percent more than their due share the government should take steps
against the person employed and the person who employed him. It is a clear
case of encoraching on the rights of others. So there is nothing wrong in the
law taking action. Otherwise the forward sections would still further progress
and the backward would become more backward. The dawn of independence
to India has given more scope for the Brahmins only. They are progressing
speedily. In those old days, ICS (Indian Civil Service) examination was held
in London. As the Government met the expenses, the Brahmins were able to
pass the exams. They cunningly included the Christians and the Muslims as
Non-Brahmins, who were not opposed to the Brahmins. They obeyed the
Brahmins in public life. They decidedly kept the Non-Brahmin out of the
ring. Even after independence the IPS and IAS posts are monopolised by
Brahmins.
What will be fate of our people working under Brahmin officers? They
will foist false allegations and victimise our people. How long can our people
bear this and remain in service? The Brahmins monopolising these posts is
detrimental to the Non-Brahmins, who form the majority of the population. Is
this democracy? Is this the standard of our administration? If 87 percent of
the population is kept under under this sad plight, is this democracy? Is it
just, reasonable and fair to allow the 3 percent of the population to
monopolize and dominate? Is it wrong to assert for our rights? We, the
Dravidians damand justice. We demand repsect. We demand our share. When
we claim all these, why should any one get angry?
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 208

I learn that while addressing a meeting, Mr.Kamaraj assured the people
that his government would look after the Communal G.O.. He says that his
government will appeal to the Supreme Court against the orders of the
Madras High Court. He did not stop with that. He accused me of having an
axe to grind in this matter. I do not know what he means. During the last 30
years of my public life, I have played a selfless role. I never expected
anything as reward for my services to the Sudras and the Untouchables. Can
Mr.Kamaraj cite a single instance of my doing anything for myself? My work
is the emancipation of the society. I am for the eradication of the high and the
low. I want to restore dignity and repsect for all men. I want equal justice and
equal treatment and equal opportunities for all. Redemption of Self- repsect
and restoration of dignity to mankind are the dedicated tasks of mine.
If I had not pursued this policy all these days, will Kamaraj be the
President of the Tamilnadu Congress? Would it be possible for eleven Non-
Brahmins to be ministers in a cabiner of 12 Ministers?
It is for them to think over where these gentlemen were, when we started
the Non-Brahmin movement? So far as I am concerned, in addition to hold
the positions of President, Chairman, Secretary of various bodies, I was also
doing big business. I was not a nonentity at anytime. It is our Non-Brahmin
movement that has made them hold a high status today.
Today the Non-Brahmin leaders are advising the students not to pay heed
to my words. Let them discard me and go to wash the feet of Brahmins! What
do I lose? After all I am aged and with one foot in the grave!
What for do our Dravidian boys read? Should they not go to colleges
from school? Should they not get good jobs? Is it not the responsibility of
eleders to settle these matters aright? This year I gave a letter to
Dr.Subramaniam. I recommended a student who got a first class. He did not
get admission. In the past I used to give many letters like this. All used to
secure seats. Today no one is selected. It is very distressing to see our boys,
with creditable marks not being able to get selected to prosecute their studies
further.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 209

Are we to study simply to waste money and remain as slaves? How many
crores are spent for education? It is agonising to see our boys not reaping the
benefits. That is why, I want a solution to all these.
Our next programme of action is a diffcult one. We will have to sacrifice
a lot. It is not for violence. We are not to beat anyone. We are not for
throwing acid on anybody. Without giving any trouble to anyone, we will
have to bear the difficulties and pain to achieve success. By that agitation we
will gain a lot.
Why should we have a government at Delhi which does not do anything
for us? Can we not rule ourselves? Does our country lack in natural
resources? We have a coast line of 1500 miles. Our ships can go to any part
of the world. We have railways. Can we not flourish? Why should we give
away our rights and powers to Delhi? When they are there as ministers, we
are naturally exploited. What if we have a government of our own? They do
not give due respect even to our Tamil Nadu ministers here. Dr.A.L.Mudaliar
gave a clean breast of the affair in the debates of the Legislative Council.
Even our ministers have accepted the fact many times.
In India, the North is ignoring the South. South is being exploited. Why
should we be suppressed? If we had powers in our hands, we would have
solved our problems. To solve the food shortage, we could have directly
imported food grains from abroad. Today we, the Tamil Nadu people, do not
have the powers. The Government of India procure food grains and take them
here and there and by the time we get our quota they are almost unfit for
comsumption. North Indians are suffering here. They are playing. Why
should this situation be allowed? Should we not sacrifice even our life and
gain full freedom? Let us redeem our land of Dravida Naadu.
The present agitation is not an agitation for mere communal G.O. It will
lead us to agitate for the separation of Dravidanadu. Rajaji’s imposition of
Hindi made the Tamils unite and solidly demonstrate the solidarity of Tamils.
Similarly by the present agitation, we will consolidate our strength against
the dominant and exploiting Aryans. With zeal and vigour we will get our
motherland. We will rule ourselves. We will soon be free to solve our
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 210

problems.
So I appeal to you all to get ready for playing your role in the agitation.
*~*~*
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 211

Why Brahmins Hate Reservation?
(It is a known fact Thanthai Periyar E V Ramasami had to quit Congress
in 1925, as the Brahmin dominated Tamil Nadu Congress Committee refused
to accpet the principle of Communal representation for Dravidian Race in
Public Services. Till his last breath he safeguarded the resesrvation policy.
His writings in “Kudi Arasu” “Viduthalai” and birthday souverniors about
the need to implement the reservation policy for all communities are given
below in a nut shell)
***
Communal representation is the accredited right of every
section of the Dravidian people of this nation and its government. It is the
common right of all citizens belonging to every community. The main motive
of the principle of communal representation is to eradicate the unequal status
amongst the citizens. Communal representation is a ‘boon’ to create a society
of equals. When there are communities which are forward and progressive
hampering the well being of all the other communities, there is no other go
but to resort to the system of communal representation. It is by this way the
suffering communities could begin to heave a sigh of relief. The need for the
prolongation of the system of communal representation will automatically
cease and it will be found absolutely unnecessary to continue the policy any
longer, when all the communities have become equals.
Excepting the Brahmin community all other communities started to
demand for communal representation soon after the talk of representation of
Indians in governance began. For a long time, except the Brahmin
community all other communities carried on agitation urging the government
to implement the policy of communal representation.
The Brahmins, particularly the Brahmins of Tamil Nadu, resorted to many
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 212

ways to put hurdles and create obstacles against the implementation of the
policy of communal representation. They pursued cunning methods and
conspired many times against the communal representation policy, which
was a boon to all downtrodden Dravidian communities.
One could understand the Brahmins opposing the communal
representation policy, if at all they had openly come forward to list out the
evils of uplifting the downtrodden people. All those who oppose simply said
‘no’ and no one explained why? So far no one has clearly listed out the
reasons for opposing the policy of reservation. What is wrong in making all
people equals? What is wrong in giving equal opportunities for all? If there is
nothing wrong in creating a Socialist society, and if it is undeniable that the
present society composed of unequal should be made progressive, what else
can be done without creating reservations based on population through the
communal representation policy? Could it be denied that there are weaker
sections in the society?
Moreover, when we have allowed the classification of the society based
on religion, caste and community, we cannot stand in the way of the people
demanding special rights, based on religion, caste and community. There is
nothing wrong on their part or of any community in safeguarding their
interests. I don’t see anything dishonest in that.
The casteism made the people to go backward. Castes spell more and
more ruination. Castes have made us low and have-nots. Till all these evils
are eradicated and everyone attains an equal status in life, the proportional
representation policy based on population is indispensable. Many
communities have entered the field of education only recently. All should be
enabled to study and attain a civilized stage. Our people should get education
and study well. Our people should get their due share in the public services
and in all other fields according to their percentage in the total population.
In this country out of 100 people, only three are Brahmins. Sixteen
percent of the populations are Adi Dravidas. 72 percent of the population are
Non-Brahmins. Should not the jobs be given to all in proportion to the
population?
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 213

Merit and Efficiency
You find merit and efficiency among all people. All communities urge for
concessions today. It is ensured to them by law. Even in the matter of merit
of downtrodden are given concessions. Because of this concession given to
the Backward and Scheduled caste people you do not see any danger. It
cannot be said that the standard of administration has fallen only on account
of concession extended. It cannot be argued that good trait of humanity as
honesty had deteriorated. No community is discriminated. All communities
are treated equally. By the reservation policy based proportionately on the
total population, all the communities derive their legitimate share.
When a student passes the (S.S.L.C.) Secondary School Leaving
Certificate examination, it is clearly stamped that he is eligible for college
course. The educational authorities declare that he is fit for college course.
But when he puts up the application for admission to any college, once
against his merit is judged by a separate test. Marks are taken into account to
judge the merit. Higher authorities in the education department send orders to
the principals not to admit students indiscriminately. Is there any meaning in
all these? Who created this? Is it not the Brahmins.? When once a student is
declared as eligible for college courses, it is the duty of the government to
give him admission, without any difficulty. Is it not to make the other
community people get disgusted with education and ruin their future
prospects that all these cumbersome, unjust and unwanted practices were
created by the Brahmins?
By all these the future of Backward and Scheduled castes is doomed. In
the matters of education they are buried fathoms deep by these cunning
Brahmin mechanisation. The Brahmins are able to detain even those students
who have a thorough knowledge of the lessons. Similarly they are able to
detain even the few students who manage to get a pass by these tests and
selections.
I am accustomed to watch closely the merit, ability and standard of all
people all along. My considered opinion on all these matters is also known to
you by my writings, speeches and publications. I am one who is dedicated to
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 214

work for the welfare of the Backward and Scheduled caste people of
Dravidian Race. That is the main reason why I strongly oppose the theory of
merit and efficiency. Why should you talk of merit and efficiency when once
a student has passed a particular examination? What for such a thing? Is there
any sense in doing so?
What are the benefits we have gained by the ministers composed of men
with merit and efficiency? Is there any thing to be proud of? Think over!
Similarly what have we lost by the rule of those who are said to be
inefficient and beneath the standard. Tell me.
So, I proclaim that there should be no place for merit and efficiency in the
realms of government.
He who does not want rights for his community must be one who does
not know the oppression of his community by the Brahmins. Otherwise he
must be a suspect to the community he belongs. If a particular community
demands certain rights for the said community, the vested interests condemn
the community as unpatriotic and anti-national. I would say that any one
doing so is a nomad not belonging to any nation or community. Our people
have failed to assert their legitimate rights. It is on account of this serious
draw back that we find only nomads (Aryans) over-riding us. When we
become conscious of our rights, we can easily put an end to the domination of
the nomads.
Job Hunters
There are others who go to the extent of condemning us as job hunters. I
don’t deny it. I am not ashamed of seeking jobs. What is there shameful in
seeking jobs? What do the Brahmins of Aryan Race do? Are they not seeking
jobs? Are they not job hunters? Who are they? If they have the right to claim
for jobs, how ironical it is to call us as job hunters? Please think over. Who
really has the legitimate right to seek jobs. I would say that our people alone
have the right to hunt for jobs.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 215

If any Dravidian community neglects to seek jobs I would say that the
community is an irresponsible community. I would condemn them as
unpatriotic and anti social. They are traitors to the country.
Not only that. If any particular community is differentiated or ignored it
will be disastrous to the society. If it is objected that jobs should not be given
to a particular community based on its proportion to the total population that
would amount to putting that community to disgrace and injustice. No
community would be willing to continue as cowards devoid of self-respect
forever. Any community that fails to assert for its legitimate share in the field
of employment will be considered as degraded and shameless community.
(Kudi Arasu, 30.11.1934)
In a country with various caste distinctions, if opportunities are denied for
every caste to get education, jobs and representation in the administration
according to their legitimate share based proportionately on the population,
there will be no end to the enmity, vengeance and fraudulent activities in the
society.
(89th Birthday Souvenir of Periyar – 1967)
As a measure to put an end to the evils of caste in India, particularly in
South India, it is absolutely essential to get things done by proper legislation.
It is necessary to agitate for claiming Communal representation in the
legislatures through the government. I deem this noble task as a part of the
revolution for the dawn of Socialism.
(Kudi Arasu, 18-08-1935)
The communal tensions and cleavages are day by day increasing due to
many factors. There is no mutual trust between one community and the other.
There is increasing hatred amongst communities. One community wants to
dominate over the other. The Community that has somehow become
dominant does not like to compromise. Those who enjoy more rights are not
willing to forego anything. They are adamant in their attitude towards the
downtrodden sections with the result, you find more and more bitterness
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 216

amongst communities.
(Kudi Arasu 19-07-1936)
Please think over whether there is any fairness and justice on the part of
those who have gained a lot in the name of their community, passing scathing
remarks on others as communalists. They lost their legitimate share by their
community identity.
(Kudi Arasu 19-7-1936)
On one side, attempts are made to safeguard the Hindu religion, castes
and communities. On the other side, the demand for proportional
representation in the name of religion, castes, and communities is condemned
as unfair, unjust, ridiculous. I would say that it is one thousand times unfair
and unjust to say so. It only reveals the low standard and vendetta against the
traditionally exploited communities.
(Kudi Arasu – 8-11-1931)
The government, which proclaims to root out communalism should have
made the practice of putting caste marks as Namam on the foreheads as an
offence and imprisoned the offender for one year. Similarly a law should
have been passed to imprison for two years those, who wear the thread
(Poonul). Are not these symbols indicative of the distinct communities? A
government determined to eradicate castes ought to have given scissors to the
policemen to cut away the tufts and Poonul. Simply saying that the
government is not communal and yet permit the wearing of poonul, keeping
tufts, chanting mantras (hymns), declare holidays for the birthdays of gods is
condemnable. Under these circumstances, one cannot but condemn the
government for upholding the communalism of Brahmins.
In the story of Ramayana it is said that Vali would acquire half of the
strength of all those who opposed him. I say to those who oppose the
communal representation policy, that they would only be strengthening the
demand for communal representation by all their actions. The more and more
they oppose, the more and more would be the demand for communal
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 217

representation. The demand will go on gaining momentum. That is what is
going on now.
(Kudi Arasu – 1.09.1935)
I might have changed my views many times in politics. But so far as my
social life is concerned, I continue to be opposed to Brahmins. My hatred
towards Brahmins is always constant. I became a rationalist and an atheist by
this. To my dream of social reform, I strongly insist on crushing the Brahmin
monopoly in the public services. I deem it as the very first step for social
revolution. It is the ABCD of social reform. Because of this I am criticized as
a communalist. I continue to be the embodiment of communalism of a
peculiar nature.
Efficiency and Examinations:
For anything and everything, the Brahmins are insisting on Merit and
Efficiency. It is an invention of the Brahmins as the “Mohini Avataram” in
the epics. The only motive of the Brahmins is to spoil the prospects of the
Non-Brahmin communities, who are now only at the threshold of progress.
In the days of the Britishers and during the days of the Justice Party rule
in the Pre-independence days, jobs were given to all qualified persons. Then
mere degrees were not considered as the stamp of merit and efficiency by
Brahmins. People were trained before giving them jobs. The Brahmins do not
now take their fitness as stamp of merit and efficiency. The only thing
emphasized as the stamp of merit and efficiency is the highest marks scored
in examinations. He, who obtains the highest marks gets the job, on the basis
of merit and efficiency. However intelligent one may be, however
experienced one might be, he will not be considered as one with merit and
efficiency, if he gets the marks for a pass. I like to point out how foolish and
mischievous the doctrine of merit and efficiency is.
Is there any record to show that those selected on the basis of merit and
efficiency have exhibited their talents in their work with merit and
efficiency?
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 218

Is there any means to find out how the employees belonging to Backward
Class execute the work entrusted to them? Is there any such record to show
that those who acquired very high marks in the examination alone were able
to execute the work efficiently in a diligent manner? This is the way in which
the merit and efficiency policy is being worked. Many people are holding
posts as though they alone have the merit and efficiency to do the work.
Meaningless
Take the case of teachers. You find many teachers appointed on merit and
efficiency basis. Is there any system to assess their work based on the number
of students passing examination and the marks secured by the students? Do
we have any means to judge the merit and efficiency of teachers on any basis
after appointing them? Is it so in the case of other professions as doctors,
engineers, judges, collectors and so on? Is there any means to assess their
merit and efficiency while they are in service.?
If it is said that securing very high marks in the examination alone is the
determining factor and if we agree that only those who have succeeded in
getting high marks are to be given high posts, I would like to ask one thing:
Are the Presidents, Governors and Chief-ministers posts are given to those
people taking into consideration any high marks they have secured in any
examination?
There is another lacuna in this bogus merit and efficiency theory. If a
particular person had secured very high marks in a particular field or subject,
is he given a high post in the same field or subject? Do the high marks
secured in a particular subject help him in the job he undertakes.? Is there any
relevance or relation between these two things? Are the selections of
candidates made by considering the subject in which one is proficient or the
subject he has to deal with in service?
Children are sent to schools and colleges to acquire knowledge. What is
the fun of admitting them after considering their merit and efficiency? This is
absurd. It is not right to talk of merit and efficiency even for admitting
students to various courses of study. I would say it is meaningless, unwanted
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 219

and highly objectionable.
17.09.1965 Periyar’s Birthday Souvenir.
Brahmin Monopoly
Really speaking, the people who have very few posts in the government
services – the communities which have low representation in the government
services – those castes which are enjoying only a few posts in the government
services, should be treated as the minorities. They should be given adequate
protection by the government. Special concessions should be extended to
these minorities in the services.
How does India look like? It looks as a thick forest of various castes.
Naturally the legislatures and offices too are flooded with castes. The State
Assemblies and the Parliament also present the same look. But what about
the staff in the State and Central Government offices? And that too what is
cognizable, particularly in the Central Government offices, which has very
many high salaried posts?
If you take pains to analyze closely, you will find out very easily that
Brahmin community alone is monopolising almost all the posts in the States
and the Centre. This may be tolerable, when other communities were not
keen on claiming the posts. It might have been acceptable, when other
communities were not adequately qualified for holding posts. No one would
criticize the Brahmins under such circumstances. But, things have changed.
The Backward and Scheduled Castes of Dravidian Race are today
adequately qualified like the Brahmins to hold any post equally. They are
demanding their legitimate share in all the fields. They demand their share in
proportion to their percentage in the population. What should the Brahmin
monopolists do under these changed circumstances? Should they not silently
yield to the reasonable demands of the Backward and Scheduled Castes?
Instead of behaving in a just and reasonable manner, they are raising loud
cries, and indulge in threats. What do we understand from this? Is there any
reason or meaning in their behaviour?
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 220

Freedom for Whom?
What for did we wage a bitter struggle to drive away the British
imperialists? Is it to give the right exclusively for the Brahmin Community to
get the posts held by the Britishers? Unless we enable all communities to take
part in the governance of the country, we can not really have a representative
government for all the people.
It is unjust to provide all the jobs to the Brahmin community. How could
one particular community alone be the inheritors of all the benefits of the
government? Today many communities are deprived of their share. Similarly
many people belonging to other religions are also ignored. Is not India a land
of many religions and communities?
The behaviour of the Brahmins in opposing the reservation is inhuman
and unfair. I like to cite an example.
Imagine that the thieves have entered and robbed the valuables of the
dwellers in the house. The owners of the stolen property lodged a compliant
with the police. The police traced the robbers and restored the stolen
properties to the real owners. Supposing the robbers raise a cry and protest
with threats, what would any sensible man think? Are not the Brahmins like
those robbers?
There is an adage that the beggar, who came for alms had become the
son-in-law of the house. Are all the Government departments rightfully
reserved to the Brahmins alone? How is it right to allow the Brahmins alone
to occupy almost all the high salaried posts? From whose money are they
paid? Could it be denied that the majority of the tax payers are the Backward
and Scheduled Caste people as Gounders, Vanniyas, Makkulathors, Naidus,
Pillais, Pariahs and Chakkilis?
Why are we demanding our legitimate share in the government services?
In India, if a job in the government ends with mere salary and bribes, the
Backwards and the Scheduled Caste people would quietly go on with their
own traditional work. They would be disinterested in the government jobs.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 221

They would remain content with their own usual occupation. But all posts in
the Government carry with them specific powers. Even an ordinary small job
carries with it some power. Don’t you think such powers would be exploited
by the individual to safeguard and enrich his own community?
After all, the Government employees are also human beings. Naturally
they would look after the interests of their own community. No on could
claim that they are more than human beings.
If every community and caste is able to share the posts and powers in
proportion to the entire population, the chances of serving their own
community would be abundant.
What factors lead us to determine whether the country has advanced or
not? How to say that the people are civilized? How are we to come to a
conclusion that wisdom, discipline, honesty are being developed? To
determine all these things there must be equality i.e., equal shares, equality in
possession, equality before law, similar outlook, understanding and
experience amongst all sections or communities in the society in all spheres.
We should create such a State and it must be done. Don’t you think it
absolutely indispensable to attain the goal of creating an ideal socialist state?
What is the nature of our country? You have Brahmins, Sudras (the heirs
of prostitutes) and Panchamas (the Untouchables) as different and distinct
communities.
Take into consideration religions. You find three different and distinct
religions viz., Hindu, Islam and Christianity. Under no circumstances will
these three divisions come together as belonging to only one community or
nation. Look at their behaviour in the society.
When the actual facts are like these, wisdom lies in determining the
legitimate share for each and every community in the field of politics, public
life, posts and education, failing which they will have no other go than to lead
the life of a dog and a cat. There will be lack of mutual trust and
understanding. There will be scope only to wreak vengeance. One would try
to suppress the others. One would defraud the others. One would cheat the
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 222

others.
In the matter of appointments and in the mater of extending concessions,
the total number of people in every community should be awarded their due
share, based proportionately on the population of the country. The merit and
efficiency is a common feature in all castes and religions. As such whoever is
separated under a particular caste or religion or community must be assured
of his right to claim posts based proportionately on the population.
When I say that the Backward Classes and Scheduled Castes should be
given posts in the government services, I do not mean that any Tom, Dick
and Harry walking in the street should be recruited for government services.
For every post minimum educational qualification is fixed. If that
qualification is there, I insist that the jobs should be given to the downtrodden
people.
After having prescribed the minimum qualification for the posts, there is
no need to choose the candidates on any other basis as merit and efficiency.
It cannot be proved with facts and figures that those selected on the basis
of merit and efficiency alone are efficient, diligent, brilliant, and honest in the
discharge of duties. At the same time, there are no records in evidence to
prove that those who were given jobs by reservation are dishonest and
inefficient in the discharge of duties.
If we just take the pains to analyse we come to know that it is the so
called high caste persons of the forward community, which is monopolising
the high posts in the government, who are found to be dishonest in their
dealings, particularly the Brahmin minority community holding the majority
of posts.
Their dishonest dealings and corrupt actions are generally hushed up
because of caste feelings. The accused and the High Court judge or senior
official belong to one and the same caste invariably. There is scope for
pressure through recommendations and chances to seek concession. That is
why many mal-practices are not let known to the public.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 223

If every community is adequately represented in the government services,
it would bring to light all the malpractices and maladministration.
Reservation is a must for improving the standard of administration.
Reservation is a must to counteract the malpractices by the monopolists in all
the spheres of activities of the government.
Proportional representation of all communities of Dravidian and Aryan
Races in the government service is the only solution for achieving social and
communal justice in the Society.
The talk of merit and efficiency is a bogus one. It is a hoax played by
Brahmins on the innocent people. Not only that; it is a big fraud to deter the
Backward and Scheduled Castes from achieving any progress, peace and
happiness.
*~*~*
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 224

March Towards Peace,Prosperity and Progress
Food Habits
Our people, who are said to be endowed with rationalthinking abilities,
are today faced with a number of problems. They are in the midst of worries
and troubles. They have more and more grievances. Of all such pinching
problems, the scarcity of food is today the most important problem. It is
really a foolish thing to worry about the shortage of food. I would say that we
are ourselves to be blamed for this unnecessary worry about food. Why do I
say so?
In my opinion the dependence on rice by our people is condemnable. It is
not right to say that rice alone is needed for appeasing our hunger. Rice is not
at all necessary. It is not really useful to us. All our fields came to be
ploughed and cultivated for growing rice only a thousand or two thousand
years ago.
The human beings were originally accustomed to eat meat, and flesh of
other living beings. It is only later on that people gave up non-vegetarianism.
The change made to vegetarianism and the consumption of vegetables is a
bad practice. It is only after the advent of rice cultivation that vegetarianism
came into vogue.
When people have acquired the habit of drinking coffee, there is scarcity
for sugar and milk and it has become an eternal problem yet to be solved.
Naturally sugarcane is grown in fertile lands, which were used for cultivating
rice all these years. Because of the fact that milk is being utilised mostly for
preparing coffee, our children are unable to ger a nutritious diet and they are
weak, slim and unhealthy. Moreover, all are not able to consume adequate
quantities of curd, buttermilk, cheese and ghee. Ninety percent of the produce
of sugar is being utilised by the people for preparing sweets and coffee. On
account of this, most of the fertile lands which were growing paddy are being
converted to produce sugarcane. How ever much we go on increasing the
production of sugar, the scarcity continues. Scarcity of milk is also like this.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 225

It is also going on increasing. We still go on depending of foreign countries
for tinned milk and milk powder to overcome the shortage.
Many of us have no other go than to consume ordinary vegetables which
lack in nutritious ingredients. We have created this practice unnecessarily.
Our agriculture has become unhelpful to us. Unnecessary things are grown.
With the result we have shortage of rice. Moreover these have resulted in the
two fold increase of expenditure for our food. Inevitably, the cost of living
has spiralled up.
Change Necessary
It is not an easy thing to bring in a change in this matter. It is as difficult
as we experience in the case of god, religion and vedas.
The Brahmins and Saivites abstain from consuming non-vegetarian
dishes. By this, they have created a high status for themselves. They are
indifferent towards others. They don’t stop with that. They talk ill of non-
vegetarians (who are accustomed to eat meat, fish etc.,). They call non-
vegetarians as low and inferior to them.
There are ample evidences in the Vedas, Shastras (Hindu doctrines) and
religious scriptures to vouchsafe the fact that the so-called Brahmins were
originally non-vegetarians. They not only ate mutton and beef but also the
flesh of pigs, asses, and horses, as is authentically stated in their own
scriptures. Forgetting this, they indulge in heckling non-vegetarians now.
So, it is absolutely essential to change our food habits at least in the
interests of the “lower” class of people.
First of all, the habit of drinking coffee should be prohibited by law. For
growing vegetables, there should be a licensing system to control the
production of vegetables. It is enough if vegetables are grown to the extent
needed to satisfy the demands of the Brahmins and saivites who proclaim to
be vegetarians.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 226

More Non-Vegitarians
Non-vegetarians who consume mutton and chicken should be induced to
cultivate the habit of beef-eating. And the cost of beef should be pegged
down in order to enable a large number of people to consume beef . Even as
you see a large number of cattle farms in Western countries, our government
should come forward to create more and more cattle farms. Cows should be
maintained for the purpose of milk. In foreign countries cattle are not utilised
for cultivating lands. There you find only machines. Similarly, we should
introduce machines in the field of agriculture and see that the animals are
used only for other useful purposes.
Our food habits and diet systems were also laid down by those who led a
carefree life at the expense of the toiling masses. Our food habits are made in
the manner of increasing our burdens. We are now accustomed to take a
variety of dishes for our dinner. With rice we take curry, pepper-water,
butter-milk or curd along with other dishes as fried vegetables.
In the morning, we take lddili, Dosai, Uppuma - all made out of rice-flour
with Coffee or Tea.
In the night, we consume anything we like. Even in those families which
have only very low income, you find these food habits only. In many poor
families they are forced to give up eating either in the morning or in the
evening. It is all due to poverty and helplessness.
North-Indians are not like us, as they have simplified their food habits.
They have either ‘chappati’ or ‘poori’ along with only one dish. The
North Indians who can afford, consume sweets in addition.
The total population of the world is estimated to be 350 crores (perhaps in
1940). Out of it only 15 crores of people are vegetarians.
Solution
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 227

We could reduce the area of the land now being cultivated. We could
considerably reduce the hard labour involved in cultivation. Suppose we are
able to save half the area and labour we could concentrate on developing the
goats, bulls, bullocks, cocks and hens, pigs and fish. If we increase our cattle-
wealth and that of other living beings we consume as food, I do not think
there will be any need to fear about food scarcity. There will be no shortage
of food for any one.
Man has become a slave to coffee-on account of modern civilisation. This
habit leads to the increase in our cost of living. Similiarly, our addiction to
the practice of consuming rice as a modern civilised way of living has also
contributed to the rise in the cost of living. We have neglected valuable other
grains as ragi, millet and maize, and increased the cost of living by solely
depending on rice. The main cause for the loss of working hours and the half-
hearted labour of the working classes is due to our addiction to non-nutritious
food varieties.
So, I insist on a thorough change in our food-habits. Instead of solely
depending on rice, we have to find some other means to get the energy
needed for doing work with the help of other valuable nutritious ingredients.
In the beginning, we depended on steam to operate machines. We had to light
the coal and prepare fire to boil water and get steam for operating the
machines. Later on we used crude oil and then petrol for the same purpose.
Now, we use electricity. According to the changing times we adjusted
ourselves and brought in numerous changes. Similarly, to keep all parts of the
body intact, to carry out their respective work, we should find out energetic
nutritious varieties of food, which could be consumed in small quantities as
pills or tablets. Consuming large quantities of food to maintain the body and
do the work, must be changed. It will of course take a long time to effect the
change. Yet, it is possible to produce now itself adequate stocks of bread and
rear the required number of goats, oxen, pigs and so on at cheaper cost, to
enable all the people the have food. No one need starve. I know some people
would repel at what l say. I like to request them to look at what is going on in
other countries. They should look at the people living there.
ress-styles
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 228

If we are to eradicate the various differences in the society and build up
unity we should fundamentally change our dress habit, which is the major
reason for the unwanted classifications in the society. Realising this fact the
“Hero of Turkey”, Kamal Pasha, brought in a revolutionary change. He
ordered that everyone should wear the same type of dress irrespective of sex.
By this revolutionary change, a small and insignificant one, Turkey was able
to become a great powerful nation in the world.
In the matter of appearance, dress and behaviour, foreigners are well
disciplined. We do not seem to have any realisation of all these changes. On
account of this some of our people take pride. They think it suited to our
nature and tradition. Not only that, they do not want to think about the need
to change. That is their view.
So far as our country of India is concerned, changes are very difficult to
be effected. The change may be necessary. It may be absolutely correct. It
may herald a lot of advantages. Yet the faith in the old traditions prompts our
people to oppose such meaningful changes. Faith in blind beliefs makes our
people reactionaries. They oppose and carry on propaganda against changes.
They search ways to find fault with the changes unnecessarily. With the
result you find the people of this country alone remain backward. They are
degraded. They are jealous. This continues for many centuries, resulting in
our people becoming slaves to old customs. l tried my best to find out a way
and l pleaded for many changes, including our dress habits boldly.
Same dress for Males and Females
Our males and females should wear ‘Lungi’ and ‘Jibba’ uniformly. My
wife Mrs.Nagammai wore like that for one and half months. But she felt shy
to go out of the house freely.
There should not be one type of dress for males separately and another
type of dress for females separately. The dress should be worn in such way
that it must not be possible to distinguish the sex easily. Parents should not
call their daughters as a girl. They must be addressed as boys. Even in
christening names, the girls should be called by the names of males.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 229

Our ladies take a fancy to grow long hairs. It is not the civilised way to
grow hair six feet long. It is unnecessary. Moreover it is a burden. It is an
inconvenient and a wasteful act. Ladies should crop their hairs as gents.
In appearance, dress and behaviour, ladies and gents should maintain a
uniform standard. This change is entirely indispensable. This change is
essential for liberating our women from slavery. I regret very much to state
that our ladies moving about with pomp and show itself is a clear indication
of their low status in the society. When l say that the dress should be the same
for ladies and gents, it goes without saying that spending money lavishly for
artificial beauty and false prestige also should go. My desire is that ladies
should develop themselves on a par with gents. The main impediments to the
progress of our womenfolk are the sarees, ornaments and other articles of
fashion and luxury.
Our ladies should realise this great drawback withholding their progress.
Please do not mistake me as though l am against decency and cleanliness.
They are quite essential. But they should not be attained by wasting a lot of
money. Such artificial beauty and appearance is not at all required. Being
gaudy and glamorous is not good. One can lead a simple life, curtailing, all
these expenses, and yet look decent, civilised and simple.
Common Kitchen
The term Hotel connotes even eating houses. In our society everyone
builds a house for himself, with a kitchen for cooking his food. If the people
desire to lead a happy life they should avoid unnecessary troubles and
worries. What do we see in foreign countries? Most of the people live there
happily in the rooms attached to eating houses. They order their requirements
and the restaurants supply them the needs to their satisfaction. The
restaurants in those countries are able to look after the needs of thousands of
people.
There, the husband and the wife go out for work. They simply come to
the restaurant for taking their food. They easily walk into their room for rest.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 230

In this way they have avoided unnecessary troubles. They have no burden to
go to the market for purchasing articles of food. They have no need to worry
about storing things and taking care of them.
What do we see here?
For two people to reside and lead their life, you find a new big building
built at a huge cost of many lakhs of rupees. Is this not a waste? It will be a
blessing to us if restaurants with rooms are built here on a large scale as you
find abroad. The government should volunteer to extend its support in all the
possible ways. The owners of such establishments should not run them for
mere profit. They should think that they serve the society. They should not
think that their establishments are commercial institutions, motivated to earn
profit alone. The interests of the common people should be their motive.
Service to society must be their aim.
When l had been to Russia, l was taken out to see a common kitchen.
About twenty six thousand people were supplied with food in it. Some
doctors were there to supervise the functioning of the work. They prepare all
varieties of diet needed for so many people. Such things must be done in our
country also.
The thought of having a big house for every individual and a kitchen
separately for preparing his meals should not arise. If we create restaurants
like those in foreign countries, we will be free from unnecessary troubles.
The government should consider the matter seriously and concentrate on
creating such restaurants. They should run many (common kitchens) as far as
possible. By this you can free a large number of people, from their worries
and family troubles. Whatever other may think of me, l venture to explicitly
reveal my opinions.
If the ideal of co-operation takes deep roots in our country and functions
in the right way properly there will be no need for anyone to face any sort of
worry. There will be an end to troubles and difficulties. There will be no
cause for any anxiety. There will be perfect peace and happiness. Everyone
could live with full contentment and with eternal delight.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 231

Selfishness
In our country whenever a new organisation is started our people take into
consideration that the new organisation would be an asset for their personal
gains and they become members and take part in the activities. This is a very
serious drawback amongst us. We don’t think about the interests of the
general public and the world at large. They completely ignore their duties and
responsibilities to the society. Supposing a man owns a cart drawn by a horse,
he does not go out in the cart all the time. He may make use of the vehicle for
two or three hours only. But he feeds the animal to the brim throughout the
day. For many hours the cart remains idle. Say out of ten hours the cart is
used only for three hours. The rest of the seven hours is wasted. I mentioned
only one instance. There are many things like this.
Our people waste the money and time in many ways. That is why you
find the society static, inspite of the fact that there is increase in national
production and advancement in all fields of techniques. The selfishness and
the feeling of enjoying things for oneself is the cause. So it is essential that
we should get rid of the feeling of self and selfishness. A worthy life lies in
making everyman live peacefully and happily. Everyone should be devoid of
worries. For all these, it is essential that the spirit of co-operation pervades all
over.
Co-operation
One day or other the co-operative spirit will reign supreme making the
society march on towards progress. It is not necessary that communism
should be fostered for that. Without talking a word about communism, you
can make the society progressive with the help of mere co-operation.
You find crores of rupees locked up in the Banks. Many crores remain
idle. Yet the tiller of the soil, if he needs money for cultivation goes to the
private individuals or money lenders for loans at the abnormal rate of interest,
sometimes to the tune of ten percent. What a tragedy it is? In Russia there is
no right given to any private individual to live by lending money on interest.
Even if one receives a trivial amount from another ,it is condemned as theft.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 232

If you ask what is wrong in helping a man in difficulties; they retort and
question “How could there be dangers and difficullties?”
So Co-operative movement is the only panacea to make the society get rid
of worries and difficulties. Co-operative system is the best for all. Our people
must get accustomed to it. Give up selfishness completely. Plunge into a new
life for the good of all.
Who is to bring in co-operation, the government or the people is the
question? Many have doubts about it. I would say that those doubting
Thomases are like those who ask whether “fate” is powerful or the wisdom?
When such a controversy arises, he who has the gift for gab could naturally
triumph. I would say that the people are the government and the government
is the people. You should all realise this. Would we keep quiet when our
government is faced with difficulties! Our common interest should be like
that. Never forget that there is no govenment without people. Would we feel
that it is no concern to us if one of our limbs is injured. Our outlook towards
the general public should be also similarly. You get the pearl when the rain
drop falls into the shell of an oyster. Similarly we should control our senses
and keep everything ready for the change. When we are prepared to do, the
change will take place definitely. Our opinion is the opinion of the people.
With that belief go ahead with your life. Do not allow you nerves and blood
to go astray. Inject into your body the feeling of co-operation.
Property Right
Today, one of the major problems causing inconvenience to society is the
existence of property in the name of individuals. On account of this,
unnecessary quarrels and bickerings take place. In some cases it ends in
murders. A man will not grumble much, if he has adequate quantities of food.
But if one has more and another less or nothing, it leads to conflicts.
o you find one rich man at least free from worries. No. In order to evade
taxes and to conceal his wealth, he secretly conspires to cheat the
government. He worries to manipulate his account. He stoops to fradulent
means. Apart from all these, if he owns a lakh of rupees and sees another
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 233

person having two or three lakhs, he soon becomes worried, and thinks of the
ways to become one like him by somehow earning two or more lakhs of
rupees. Naturally he has to raise the standard of living of his family and earn
more to protect his children and other members of the family. To his new
status, he has to educate his children, secure suitable jobs for them and then
try by all means to secure promotion. There are other new responsibilities for
him to maintain a new status and dignity. His worries go on increasing,
because of his desire to amass wealth.
The poor and the working class people are very jealous of their owners.
So, if there is to be an end for all these unwanted desires and unnecessary
worries, the society must be gradually carved out on socialist ideals. We
should create a society in which everyone is able to share the joys and
sorrows equally. For creating a socialist state or society the existence of the
right to own property is an impediment. There can be no socialism with
property rights. All things must belong to the government. Nationalisation
policy must be seriously implemented. Then only people will be able to love
as equals.
The cause of worries in the society comes out from the various socio-
economic differences. Troubles crop up because of the unequal status of the
people. The only solution lies in making all things for all people.
The terms “Moksha” (Heaven) and “Mukthi” (Salvation) mean the end of
worries and the beginning of pleasures. The way to end the worries lies in
communism. The only way to crush down all drawbacks in the society lies in
communism.
Worries in life are of two kinds. When one feels that what he gets is
insufficient it leads to worry. That is, supposing one needs a measure of rice
and gets only half of what he needs, it causes him worry. There is another
type in which one gets worried to have more than what is needed to him.
Supposing one lives in one room he likes to live in two rooms. You should
understand that desires are the cause for troubles and worries.
All worries you get out of desires and out of wants, you do not find in a
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 234

communist society.
When the available stocks of food grains are equally distributed to all,
there is no need to worry. No one would feel that he got less. He will not
worry at all when all are treated equally. Such a state of life will not give
room for competition, jealousy and bad thoughts. Rid of all worries, the
people would feel equally happy.
When individuals are not allowed to own property, when private
ownership is prohibited, there is no place for god or religion or shastras
divine doctrines. The only thing needed is right thinking or wisdom. There is
no question of one being respected as high and another despised as low. No
labour would be considered as mean. All become equals. All have the same
standard of living. All enjoy the same facilities in life, even if they do
different types of work. In those Socialist countries what is meant by high
post is that it carries heavy responsibilities.
Communism is different from common rights. Communism means equal
share. Common rights represent common enjoyment. In this country (India)
the Brahmins have created low castes. These low caste - people do not have
common rights. Even the blind people are aware of this. Because of this, their
property is dwindling and they still lack in wisdom. They have not gained
anything by experience.
You see a lot of people amongst the Non-Brahmin community as lakhiers
and millionaires. But they do not have the common rights, which an ordinary
mendicant Brahmin enjoys. But it is not so with a Brahmin. However poor he
may be, he enjoys everything. He has no drawback in life. He is able to make
his son I.A.S. (High officer of Indian Administrative Service) or District
Collector or District Judge or High Court Judge or a Sankarachari or Jeer.
Why is it so? Is it not because of the special rights prevalent in our society? A
Brahmin is able to thrive because he has distinct individual rights. He needs
no money like others for his prosperity. He lives without doing any hardwork
because of the special rights he has got. Under these peculiar circumstances,
if we are able to abolish special rights, communism would dawn and take
deep roots. There can be no scope for communism in a country, where there
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 235

is absence of common ownership and rights. If attempts are made to bring in
communism in a country, which does not have common ownership and
rights, it will only give room for those who already enjoy more rights to reap
the benefits of communism. That is the lesson we have to learn from doctrine
of communism.
Heirs
It is a lie to say that a man lives with a woman to derive the natural
pleasure; I would say that a man lives with his wife out of necessity. That is,
he wants a legal heir for himself and his wife. Because man has the right to
own property and because he has earned a lot bit by bit by his own toilsome
efforts, he gets worried as to who should enjoy his property after his death.
He wants his own heirs and that too his own children to inherit his property.
This thought is not the outcome of nature.
Orthodoxy
There are also other reasons for the desire to beget children, particularly
of male sex. Already it is made as a necessity to bring forth children to inherit
the property. The Brahmins who are traditionally against the poor enjoying
property have brought in certain arrangements in the name of god, religion,
heaven and hell. Their interests are safe by all such arrangements and they
earn and become rich by all these. They have tactfully created the impression
that he, who does not have children, has no right to go to heaven after death.
They made the people believe that only a son could perform the rituals at the
ceremonies to the deceased parents and fore-fathers. By this arrangement the
Brahmin gets raw rice, dhal, plaintain leaves, ghee, clothes and cash as
‘Dhkshina’ (Prayer Fee) for every kind of ceremonial rites.
Begetting children for inheriting the property is made a duty for the
people. Begetting a son is made a necessity by the orthodoxy.
If everything is made the property of the government, most of the people
would not worry very much to beget children. That desire would not be a
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 236

source of worry.
If individuals are denied the right to own property, there is no need for
heirs to enjoy the property after one’s death. Inheritance and rights also cease,
even as everything, found buried under the earth in the form of cash and
metals belongs only to the government. The government should look after all
children. No parent should have any worry to protect the children or educate
them or secure them a job.
Family Partnership
A male and a female like each other and desire to become partners in life.
So they resolve to become husband and wife and this is called the life
partnership deed.
In any business, if the partners fail to make an agreement before starting
the business, they are bound to face troubles and disappointment. Generally
agreements precede in all kinds of business.
It is quite natural on the part of partners to think over and chalk out a plan
before investing in the business. Such an arrangement should be ratified, by
an agreement. I would say that this is essential and acceptable to the common
sense of everyone.
Similarly wedded life is like a business. Even as you need money and
labour for business, you need a man and a woman for the prolongation of life
business. Their mutual love and mutual bondage counts much for success in
life.
For making this life partnership agreement, there are many essential
things needed. Their mental calibre, their love towards one another, their
experiences, their vision of future life are some of the important factors
which lead to success in wedded life. If the married couple happen to meet
with a confrontation in fulfilling the terms of the agreement, it must be taken
that the agreement does not remain valid any more.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 237

We find today that when once a male and a female resolve to become
husband and wife, it is treated as final. There can be no change in it normally.
If anything against it happens and the married couple, either the male or the
female develops love towards a different person, there can be no love at all. It
is called prostitution. Under no circumstances, it could be accepted as an act
of true love. Somehow it is now made compulsory on the part of a husband
and wife to live together. This sort of compulsion yields peculiar results. This
is the state of affairs in society. Those who force the husband and wife to be
eternally united even under humilitating circumstances do not understand the
nature of human beings. They lack in experience. They are ignorant of the
natural instincts. Otherwise l think such people are like that knowing pretty
well everything, only with a concealed motive.
The aims, habits, behaviours, and status of the couple may be identical
when they start their life as partners. But these traints of the couple may not
remain constant forever. They are subjected to changes anytime. It is quite
natural that under the changed circumstance, the partners turn out to be
unequal partners in life. As they have no other go, they pretend to live
together. But their life is not happy. They are submerged in the ocean of
misery.
If we are to openly and boldly state using our experience, about human
behaviour, natural instincts and so on, it must be recognised that a male or a
female chooses a partner according to one’s own will and pleasure. It is just
like going to a hotel of one’s taste and desire. I would say it is purely a
private matter of the individuals. According to the individual’s personal
instinct and nature, one attains the maximum satisfaction.
In Russia, where no individual has the right to own property (Before the
liquidation of Communist Soviet Union), a male and a female do not call
themselves as husband and wife. They live as lovers or as mere friends. It is
called as free love there. There is no marriage system. They are at perfect
liberty to lead their life with their chosen partners. It is because we have
property rights and inheritance rights, we are forced to lead a family life with
strict rules and regulations. Such rules and regulations in family life are
considered as unwanted and unnecessary in a country like Russia, where you
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 238

do not have the right to own property.
They simply need a partner for pleasure. They desire a partner to spend
their leisure time with joy. They seek a partner to satisfy their natural
instincts. They live as friends. This is the relationship between a man and a
woman there.
They exchange kisses before going to work. If they dislike each other
they simply write on a card and place it on the dining table. In it will be
written “we willingly lived together happily till today. I do not wish to be so
hereafter. Let us part away”. They get separated without any hitch or trouble.
There you cannot find a man who is in love with the wife of someone else.
There is no talk on molesting or raping or eloping. Force is not used for love
affairs.
This sort of relationship between a man and a woman ensures individuals
freedom. Everyone derives perfect contentment. Is this not suitable for the
advancement of human society?
There is no justification for the prevalence of prostitution in such a State,
because there is no necessity to take to immoral life for the sake of money or
food or for any article. When everyone aspires to lead a good life with self-
respect, there will be no need for an overlord. It is not possible. No one need
be at the mercy of others. Without mutual love and consent no one would live
with the partner. In the matter of education, everyone could become a learned
man with profound knowledge of wordly affairs. That is why there is perfect
amity amongst the couples in Communist countries. They don’t fancy for a
change in search of new pleasures, very often. They are aware of the
importance of maintaining their health conditions. They realise that it is
beneath their self-respect to impose love on the unwilling. If the partner
rejects and repels, everyone becomes conscious of self-respect. The sense of
self-respect reigns supreme amongst males and females. There is no slavery
of women. There is no domination by males. There is no trace of force or
compulsion. Without injuring anyone’s health, the partners share pleasure.
Marriage
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 239

Marriage came into vogue in the days of the barbarians, say some five
thousand years ago. Why should we still maintain it? I would say that
marriages take place to make a woman slave to a man. Even as animals are
butchered (sacrificed) for the sake of gods, woman are treated in these
marriages.
Why should women, who form nearly half of the total population, be ill-
treated like this. Marriages are for selfish ends. They are not for the general
welfare. By these marriages the wife protects the husband and the husband
safeguards the wife. When children are born they are looked after by both.
There is no benefit to the society.
Our people do not worry even if the neighbour’s house is burning. He
may give a bucket of water to safeguard his own house from fire.
Our people should learn and understand the various scientific
advancements going on in the world. Without this, what is the use of simply
living separately and having a separate kitchen for the husband and wife.
They are devoid of any sense of public responsibility.
If the world is to prosper and if humanity should aspire to be happy and
progressive, marriage should be made a criminal offence by law. Such a State
would come into being, if not today, at least in the future. What all l said are
taking place. So l urge now for a change in the system of marriage. It is
atrocious to subject women who form 50 per cent of the population in the
society to such a tyranny.
Parents should provide education to their daughters up to the age of 22
years. After education, the girls should be provided with jobs. Then only, the
thought of marriage and suitable life partner should arise. That too, the girl
herself should be permitted to choose her life partner. The parents should on
no account interfere in this marriage affair.
Children
Pregnancy is the enemy of women for leading an independent life. It
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 240

stands in the way of their liberation. I feel that ladies should completely give
up begetting children. Not only women, even men lose their independence
and freedom, when they go on producing more and more children. For
bringing up the children, the parents are forced to lead an indecent, selfish
and dishonest life. Indiscipline is the result of more children to the parents.
In the world, people forego their independence and work hard as slaves to
eke out their livelihood. When the burden is increased further more on
account of begetting more children, how could there be a place for freedom
and liberty?
Not only that, because of shouldering the responsibility of safeguarding
children, our womenfolk become sick and weak. They get the symptoms of
old age much earlier than men. My feeling is that propaganda should be made
not to desire for more children. This propaganda is more important than the
propaganda for the eradication of contagious diseases.
People must be made to realise that it is in every respect a hazardous thing
to give birth to children, when the parents are quite unable to find adequate
resources to protect the children. It is foolish to argue that growth of
population in the world will be affected by stopping the evil of bringing forth
more children. When the couples indulge in sexual life beyond the limits as
mere beasts, many diseases overtake them and it also affects the health of
children. Except the human beings, no other living beings have intercourse in
a crude manner and that too with the objective of begetting young ones. Man
takes pride to call himself a rational being and yet he is immersed in a lot of
foolish notions and indulges in many acts foolishly. He craves to have
children as his property and as a means to go to Heaven. Ultimately he is
faced with unwanted worries. He becomes a source of trouble to the society.
There is no other gain!
Our women become timid and behave as slaves, as they falsely think that
it is their onerous responsibility to give birth to children and take care of
them. While the lot of our women is deplorable and while we find the
problem of unemployment increasing and causing grave concern to the
troubled society, I think the family planning scheme (limiting the number of
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 241

children) is absolutely indispensable. It is the right solution for making the
people live happily.
This birth of children compels a widower to marry another woman he
likes. Similarly a window with children is denied the right to marry another
man she likes. Women forego their honour, freedom and intellect because of
children. She becomes a mere child producing machine.
In future, birth of children will be reduced considerably. Similarly deaths
would be rare. Now a man can live for hundred years easily. Everyone would
limit children to two only. No one should be permitted to exceed the limit of
two. Sexual relation will not be for bringing forth children. In the new world
all citizens would be hale and hearty. They would be strong, intelligent and
free. The scientific advancement would be such that the semon (sperm)
extracted from healthy individuals would be made quite enough for any lady
to conceive. This we see now in the case of cattle. You will find strong and
good babies born (what Periyar said 50 years ago has become a reality. Now
we read about test-tube babies often). So l am of the firm conviction that the
society would be free from the worry of giving birth to children. The society
would be free from the trouble of protecting chldren. Parents, would not
bother to amass wealth for children. What for man is endowed with wisdom?
Is it only to pray to god and beget children? What do we see around us in the
world? Should we not go forward and sharpen our intellectual calibre? We
could no longer go on thinking about richness and poverty, worries and
troubles.
The misconceptions about childbirth should be given up. No man should
eternally worry about children. Our people must be freed from such out-
moded thoughts.
What I Preach
What strikes to my mind as most important is the complete destruction of
caste system based on birth which has created high and low discriminations,
as well as superior and inferior status in the society.
The temples as they are, should be made as common halls. There should
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 242

be no idol of any god.
There should be no place for a mutt-guru (Monastery Teacher) or mutt-
leader (Monastery Head). The temple property and the Hindu Monastery
property should be taken over by the government.
Temple festivals should be stopped and in their place exhibitions should
be conducted.
We should see that all men and women wear a uniform dress and put up a
common appearance. Excepting the buildings of factories in the cities, all
other houses in the cities must be brought under a wise scheme for housing
the people properly. It should be rationally built to save space. We should
reduce the cost of building houses. The words used to call individuals with
disrespect and disgrace should be given up.
We should allow all men and women to exercise their individual right to
choose their life partner.
Elementary education must be imparted to all children before the age of
ten. A pass in S.S.L.C. (Secondary School Leaving Certificate) examination
should be deemed as quite sufficient for getting any post in Government
public services. The discriminatory fixation of scales of pay should be
revised.
Providing facilities for unwanted things should be rectified.
Profit level must be specifically brought down.
No one should be allowed to wear or possess jewels beyond a particular
ceiling limit.
Private individuals should not be permitted to carry on money lending
business.
Civil supplies, textile stores should be brought under the control of the
local boards or co-operatives or the Government.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 243

Production may be entrusted to lessees and the produce taken over by
Government. Manufactured products from factories might be taken over by
the government.
In the teaching profession 75 percent should be reserved for ladies only.
If the husband of a lady teacher is also a teacher, he may be given special
preference to work together with his wife in the same place.
The government should build and own as many houses as possible. For
that sake, a separate department may be created with adequate budget
allocations running to lakhs of rupees.
Training should be given for more and more masons and carpenters.
In the forests trees should be cut only according to the required size.
If machinery is introduced in the carpentry work, 500 carpenters could
prepare 1000 windows and 1000 doors in a day. A machine is able to cut and
shape wood frames in a shorter time, without the need of hard manual labour.
Carpenters’ work is made light. They have to simply join the bits and fix the
frames.
Similarly even in the field of construction of building by introducing
modern, we can easily build a lot of houses.
In ten years we can solve the problem of housing easily.
Similarly the government could undertake to manufacture water pumps,
motors, oil engines and hire them out for agriculture and other purposes. If
we plan to create a separate department for everything we will not be having
the food scarcity or dress shortage or housing shortage.
By all these, we could eradicate the unequal status prevailing in the
society. There will be no worry about any scarcity or shortage.
You will find the evils in the society mitigated. Jealousy, disgust and
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 244

hatred would be considerably checked in the society.
Contentment, happiness, unity and love, would be pervading the society
gradually. Anti-social acts as plunder, robbery, cheating, betrayal, vengeance
and other harmful things in the society would begin to disappear.
You may give any name to that sort of society l wish to see.
All that l would say is that no rational human being could tolerate the
present state of affairs. It is a disgrace, if we do not try to bring in a new
social order.
*~*~*
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 245

RURAL DEVELOPMENT
(Village Reform)
(This speech of Thanthai Periyar E.V. Ramasami was delivered on
31.10.1944 at the anniversary celebrations of the Village Officers
Training School, at Erode.
Mr. V.K. Raman Menon, M.A., Barrister-at-law, the District
Educational Officer, presided over the anniversary)
Mr. President and Comrades,
Students who are undergoing training to become village
officers have assembled this morning. The President of this meeting is an
officer of the Education Department. The Deputy Collector seated next to
him surpervises the village officers. They are both invested with high
responsibilities and power. So far as I am concerned, I am the arch enemy of
all politicians. The so-called progress of our society, who are hated and
disliked by the public, are against me. Not only that, the so-called high caste
people, who are dominating in all spheres of activity in this country are
opposed to me . Moreover I am characterized as one against the obsolete old
order, the shastras (Hindu doctrines) and so on.
Though I take the privilege to call myself a social reformer, my
conception of reforms and my mode of approach are entirely different. I do
not attach any importance to anything that is based on religion and old
traditions. Most of my remedies and methods of approach are for the
complete destruction of the old order as a preliminary for the creation of a
new order of society. My reformist ideals are mostly based on this principle.
Because of this, I am also misunderstood as a dangerous and destructive man.
Under these circumstances, if I am to speak on the topic, “Village Reform
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 246

and Constructive plan for Village development” in the midst of such men
who assembled here, I do not know how far it would be proper and
acceptable to this august gathering. However, even as we patiently bear the
comedy in the dramas, which propagate many ideas considered to be
unrealizable and unpalatable, I request you all to carefully hear, what all I
say. After you reach your home, please recollect what all I said to you, think
over about them independently and in an unbiased manner. One can realize
the truth only by deep thinking. Good decisions are never taken in a mood of
anger.
Hasty decisions are not generally wise conclusions. So I appeal to you all,
to ponder over my views deeply and then arrive at wise conclusions.
So, Comrades, let me at the outset explain what village reform is. It
means that all villages should be eradicated. Not only that. Even the word
“Village” has to be deleted form the dictionary. I would say that the word
“Village” should not find a place in politics too.
Today, the conception of village, its connotation and its environment are
distinctly different from those of the towns and cities. Whatever efforts you
may take to develop and reorient the villages, you cannot reach the goal or
gain complete success. Even as all social reforms to uplift the ‘Pariahs’ and
‘Chkkillis’ (the Untochables) have ended in creating a new class of people as
“Harijans” or even as the creation of the Adi-Dravidas, there will be some
sort of change not worthwhile the name by implementing the village
development schemes. The villagers can never hope to enjoy the rights and
liberties enjoyed by the people in towns and cities. It is because, the necessity
and set-up of the cities and towns are distinctly different from those villages.
I like to explain it further. You find the society divided into different
categories as Brahmins, Kshatriyas, Vysias, Shudras and Panchamas based
on the Varnashrama (Casteism) theory. So you find the Panchamas in the
lowest rung of the social ladder, you will ever find the village occupying the
bottom place amongst cities and towns.
What is the Varnashrama (Casteism) theory? Some people are classified
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 247

as high and superior. Some people are degraded as inferior and low. A
distinct set of people called Brahmins are made to lead a happy life without
straining any nerve. They need not work. Yet they are entitled to all comforts
and pleasures in life, whereas another set of people of Dravidian Race have to
work hard eternally. The fruits of their hard work go to others. This is the
basic theory of Varnashrama Dharma (Hindu Casteism Dogma). There is
nothing else in it.
By this heinous evil, the first three sects in the social order deliberately
exploit the fourth and fifth sects of people in the society. It is believed that
the fourth and fifth categories of people were created by god with the motive
of affording a pleasant life for the three Castes of people above. It is further
stated that the fourth and fifth Castes of people have to enter the abode of
Heaven (Moksha) by serving the categories of people above and they cannot
attain “Moksha” directly by any other means.
It is further ordained that if the fourth and fifth categories of people
happen to have cash on hand, that could be forcibly taken away by the high
caste Brahmin people.
It is said that only the first Caste of people (Brahmins) alone are eligible
to read and learn. The fourth and fifth Castes of people (Dravidians) should
not read or learn.
It is this basic theory underlying the Varna Dharma (Colour based
Casteism Dogma) that you find in the case of cities, towns and villages.
Please think over whether it is true or not.
What is a village?
Now let us think about what is called a village. In a village there is no
school. No hospital. No drama theatre. No park. No court, No police station.
No good roads. No proper lights. No drinking water and above all no sign of
civilization. The villager’s earning is merely to keep the wolf off the door.
There is no scope to earn money for leading an average happy life. There is
no scope to gain progress by using their right of thinking. The villagers do
not have the chances of enjoying the facilities the people derive in towns and
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 248

cities. What else is needed to explain the condition of our villages?
But, it is said that cities and towns depend on the villages. The fruits of
labour of villagers are enjoyed by the people in the cities and towns.
Everything that is produced in villages is enjoyed by the peoples in the cities
and towns. Ultimately the people in the towns and cities are the real
beneficiaries, who become rich. The villages also enable the government to
collect taxes. Even the gods and temples, including those who depend on
temples and gods, derive the benefits because of existence of villages.
Look at the economic status and prosperity of those who lord over fertile
lands with adequate irrigational facilities. Turn to the villages in between and
see what the conditions are. Look at the money lenders and Marwaris (North
Indians) in the areas where fallow, poromboke and deserted areas exist. Look
at their houses. See how the money lenders lead their lives. Compare and
contrast the same with those of the villager-the real tiller of the soil. Even
those who procure the products from villagers and market the same in towns
and cities lead a bright life. It is only the actual tiller in the village that is in a
degraded, backward condition. Why should it be so?
Because he is uneducated, he works hard and produces. After harvest he
fills the bags and sends them to towns and cities. He takes to his huts only the
hay and waste grains. He prepares gruel and feeds the children with the
consolation that ‘god has given only that much, He fills the bellies of all his
children with mere gruel and remains contented with that life.
If you enable the villagers to read and learn, they will realize many things
and say:
“We toil. We produce. We are fed with mere gruel only. Whereas those
who do not work hard are able to eat everything to the full. They enjoy
without working. Why should we suffer?”
When once you give education to villagers, he will realize his pitiable lot.
That is the reason why the villagers are kept in the dark without education. Is
this not a clear indication of the fact that villagers are treated like the
‘Panchamas’ (Untouchables) in our social order?
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 249

Under these circumstances, it is a big “Hoax” to talk of reforming the
villages with development schemes. Those who are deemed even in these
days as high and superior, indulge loud talks about village reforms. They
advise the social reformers to go to villages.
With the inner motive of seeking clients and customers, lawyers and
businessmen go to villages on Sunday. The hold the brooms. They sweep the
surroundings. Even for this they do ‘Bhajan’ (Recital of Prayer Songs).
Filling the baskets with rubbish they carry on religious propaganda! The
greatness of Rama and Hanuman (Hindu Gods), is dinned into the ears of the
uneducated villagers. At the same time they also decry the character of
Ravana, the King of Srilanka.
o you think a village can be developed by this sort of activity?
Please think over whether this sort of work is the right means to uplift the
villagers.
What for villages?
What is the need to maintain villages? What do the people in the villages
do? They look after the breeding of goats, cows, bullocks, oxen and pigs.
They secure milk, curd, butter etc., to be enjoyed by the people in towns and
cities.
A villager gets up at 2 A.M. in the morning. He helps to feed and quench
the thrist of his pet animals. He cleans the shed by 4 A.M. He milks the cows.
He takes a little of gruel without milk. By 5 A.M. he walks a long distance of
3,4,5 miles and by 6 A.M. he taps the doors of his customers in the cities and
towns. He goes round with the milk. calling? “Sir, milk – Madam Milk”,
almost in the dark before dawn. His children know not the value of milk or
ghee. But it is true that the people in towns and cities pay money to the
villagers. Even here, you will have to see what happens to the money a
villager gets from the people in towns and cities. A part goes to the municipal
staff. A part goes to the police. Whatever remains, it mostly goes to meet
court expenses, lawyers and officials.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 250

Food Grains
Even the agriculturists in the villages sail in the same boat. Their position
is also not worthy of praise. A villager who worked hard in the fields takes
his produce to the dealers in the cities and they are swindled in the bargain.
Even in measuring the stocks he is duped. Many deductions are made under
the heads’for brokerage’, ‘for god’, ‘for account’ ‘for lot cooly’,‘for
watchman’ and so on. After all these, the dealer gives some meagre amount
only. The agriculturist from the village on seeing a few notes and coins feels
that god has given him that much for his hard work. He drinks coffee, attends
a cinema show, and goes back to his village. The merchants hoard these
grains and wait for the prices to go up. They mint money by hoarding and
black marketing. They become rich and live in bungalows. Whereas villagers
are made to drive carts, take the cattle to grazing and do household jobs.
In the eyes of the governments the villagers are more or less like the goats
taken to the butcher.
So, I do not think that I am wrong in saying the villages are like the
Untouchables in the society. Villagers live only to make all others live
happily. When the state of affairs is so deplorable what are you going to
gain? Villagers will ever be in the same conditions as the Shudras (Backward
Dravidians) and the Untouchables in the society.
So, what is the solution? Even as we crave for a society where in there
will be no Brahmin or Pariah, similarly there should be no room for different
classifications as Town, City, Village and Hamlet. Just as society must be
composed of only humans beings there should be only cities. To further
understand clearly that villages are treated like the lower castes under the
Varnashrama (Casteism) system, I like to say more.
In the society, 90 percent of the people belong to the fourth and fifth
categories of Casteism. Only 10 percent of the people belong to the higher
three categories. Similarly out of 100 places about 90 are villages. The
President of this function stated that there are seven lakhs villages in India.
But towns and cities would not be even 75,000.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 251

Moreover among those living in towns and villages, an ordinary cartman
or a peon or a begging Brahmin priest is able to educate his children. Some
are able to pass S.S.L.C., and B.A., (Bachelor of Arts Degree) Some are able
to become an Engineer or a Doctor or an I.C.S., (Indian Civil Service Officer)
It is not so in the case of a villager of Dravidian Race. Even land holders who
own 100 to 200 acres of land in villages have to spend a portion of their
income to provide education to their children. The poor cultivator’s son goes
only to look after cattle, the moment he is able to walk. In the towns, the
government compels all including scavenger’s children to study. Free schools
are started. But in the case of a villager he has got to send his children to
towns for providing education. There, due to lack of proper supervision they
get spoilt. Some become addict to the bad habit of smoking and drinking.
Why go so far? Take the case of rationing of food grains. Even as the
Nattukottai Commercial people allot regular and fixed quantity of food grains
needed to the temples and gods, the government ensures regular supply of
essential food articles to the people residing in towns and cities. There is no
such rationing to the people in villages. God alone should look after them!
The villagers go to towns and purchases a measure of rice for a rupee
stealthily. The villager is the producer of grains. He is deprived of his
produce. He is made to commit a crime, as we leave him in the lurch. He has
no other go but to go out of the way and secure his needs in towns and cities.
Coming to the mode of living, 90 out of 100 people in towns and cities do
not do hard physical work. They live happily. But it is not the case with the
people who live in villages. If there is any outbreak of row and rupture, the
villagers have to go the towns or cities many number of times to get justice.
On account of his serious drawback a villager is bound to submit silently to
the dictates of the rowdy elements in the village and also the rich people in
the village.
iverting to other aspects I wish to say a few words about the village
officers. They are paid only Rs. 15 a month as salary. But they need at least
one hundred rupees a month to maintain their status and to fulfil their needs
and for the maintenance of their family. How could you expect justice from
these village officers, who are paid a meagre salary? How could you expect
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 252

them to discharge duties, if you keep them in want. He is an officer in the
village, but he is a servant to the town.
Agriculture
Our agriculture continues to be the same as it was 200 years ago. To some
extent irrigation facilities and over - head tanks were introduced to provide
water for cultivating new lands. There is no other substantial improvement.
The agricultural department has merely recruited a few new hands. Even that
was helpful only to the Brahmins, who know not the ABCD of agriculture.
There was no improvement in the production of food grains. There was
no improvement in the mode of cultivation. The tillers are not able to get
substantial gains form their work. Agriculturists have not been enlightened
about their profession. What has the government done to them? Under the
misconception that the agriculturists in the villages are educated, they have
been distributed printed leaflets! It is wrong to presume that our agriculturists
are also educated like those in the foreign countries. The government failed to
realize the fact that most of our agriculturists are uneducated and uncivilized.
They live far away from the towns and cities. They are not aware of anything
about the modern developments. They are kept as mere irrational human
beings.
Way out
If we are really sincere in improving the conditions of the villagers and to
reorient the villages, we have to carry out many schemes. There are very
important plans to reform the villages.
Today agriculture is carried on by physical labour. It must be changed.
Agriculture must be made an industry, by the introduction of machines.
Ploughing, sowing seeds and harvesting must be done with the aid of
machines.
Boring wells, baling out water and irrigating fields must be done, with the
aid of machines.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 253

For implementing this sort of change, it is necessary that the fields should
be reorganized to enable the use of machines. Fields which could not be used
for mechanized contrivances should be utilized for cultivating crops, which
do not require frequent attention and much labour by the tillers.
The farmers should be brought under Cooperative bodies and the
harvested crops should be under the control of the farmers’ cooperatives. The
entire benefits of the produce should be equally shared by the farmers
themselves. Villages should be linked together and made as towns, with
schools, hospitals, parks, cinema theatre, drama halls, recreation centers,
library, reading room, radio center, good roads, bus stands, police station etc.
There should be a magistrate and a market for securing all commodities.
There should be a mobile exhibition to go round all the villages.
There should be an appeal court here and there. When there are signs of
any feuds or enmity, it should be immediately tackled by suitable persons,
whose duty is to go on camping at all crucial places in the villages.
Today (in 1944) the population of Madras city is ten lakhs. The
population of Coimbatore town is one lakh. The population or Erode town is
50,000. The villages around Erode as Kollam Palayam, Moolapalayam,
Surampatti, Mettuvalasu and so on must be linked together into a circle with
some name or other and it should be raised to status of a town with 3000 or
5000 population. It should be carefully protected from the exploitation of the
brokers in towns.
The feeling that the villages exist only for the sake of the people in town
should be completely eschewed.
A part form this, small scale industries should be started in and around the
village. This will put an end to villagers going out in search of jobs. There are
many cottage industries carried on with small machines. We should provide
jobs to the villagers in their own villages. We must avoid the usage of words
as ‘Kuppaikattan,’ ‘Pattikattan’ and ‘Gramathan’. They are no more needed. I
do not understand why the hard working people should be called by these
degrading words. Moreover it is unfair and unjust to do so any more. So I
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 254

want these names to go.
I have travelled abroad and visited many villages in the Western
countries. There I found the villages as I wished.
That is to say, you cannot easily find out a village, where there is no road,
taps, water facility, electric power, school, play ground, factory and above all
perfect equality amongst all the villagers. It is only in Russia that I was able
to see a few villages. By this time all those villages might have been
improved as towns. I would confidently say that there will be no village as
you see here in any of the European countries.
You say here that Villages exist to serve towns and cities as the Shudras
(Backward Dravidians) and Panchamas (Untouchables) are created to serve
the high caste Brahmins. But you cannot find even a single village there that
could be deemed to exist for the sake of the towns, in any Western country.
You may ask as to who is to look after cultivation. This querry is
something like asking as to who would do the scavenging work if all
scavengers are given education and work. To that my reply is that all
communities should come forward to do the work in proportion to their
number in the total population.This principle should operate at all places.
That is my view.
Steps must be taken to eradicate what is called “low” and “mean” in
work. Profession which requires hard labour must be made easy and light.
We should see that such professions are gradually eradicated. Then only we
can improve and make the country progressive.
If an individual builds a ship and becomes a millionaire, it cannot be
strictly called as a progress of the entire country. If one becomes a millionaire
with an Iron industry, it will not mean prosperity to the entire nation.
If it is not possible to eradicate the professions considered as low and
mean, if it is not possible to lessen the burden and hard physical labour
involved in these professions, if it is not possible to ensure more gains and
profit to the villagers, if it is not possible to evaluate the status of the
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 255

villagers, there is no use of talking of Village Reforms. I am confident that it
is quite possible to achieve success, if we start to introduce the machines and
chemicals at the village level.
A stage would come when there would be no place as village.
It is quite absurd and foolish to say that this is Socialism or Communism.
If one is able to bestow thoughts with a progressive out look he would realize
the truth and justice underlying my views.
It is not ,if a worker or a villager gets a few more coins as his income?
One should not feel contended with that.
The differences between the labourer and the capitalist, has increased on
account of the inflation in the country.
Similarly the gap between the villager and the town man gets widened by
this in adequate rises on wages. We must find ways to narrow the gap.
The differences have worsened the condition much more. The low status
enjoyed and the agony so long sustained will only render a vast section of the
people as low, degraded and downtrodden.
The society must be rid of the evils of degradation, humiliation and
inequality. Then only, the people could lead a happy and contended life.
Periyar on Family Planning
(Translated By A.S. Venu)
[Thiru A.S. Venu was a good writer and he edited many journals in the
Dravidian Movement.
As a great disciple of PERIYAR and follower of ANNA, he served in the
Editorial Board of ‘The Modern Rationalist’ - English Monthly run by our
Institution.]
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 256

Periyar on Family Planning
The people of a country must be hale, hearty, strong,
robust, bold, intelligent and self-respecting. The parents must be able to
take care of the young ones by giving them nutritive diet and proper
education. They should be always happy and unaware of mental worries. If
the children are to be brought up on these lines, the parents should consider
their ability and resources, deeply and restrict their issues accordingly.
If the parents do not think and control themselves, they will have to bear
the burden and undergo sufferings and miseries. It is the children of such
parents, who become weak in health and undergo the strain of lack of
facilities. As they become aged, they make the country poor and weak. On
account of them, others in the society are also made to suffer.
When we consider our own country, we see the population increases day
by day. Most of them are unemployed. They have inadequate means of
living. Yet they go on giving birth to more and more children. They are
unable to feed, clothe and educate their children. We see many parents ever
in poverty and sorrow. We see these conditions prevailing in large and small
families.
Why Birth-Control is needed?
As the parents go on giving birth to more and more children, their own
comforts and facilities are reduced. Similarly in a country, if the population
goes on increasing that nation is bound to face famine, poverty and dearth of
essentials for average life. Diseases also spread and render the society sick
and sorrowing.
Its fair name is tarnished. Its progress is hampered. It loses its self-
respect.
The so called reformers and economists who have sponsored many
development schemes, aimed at the economic growth of the nation met with
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 257

dismal failure. They became dejected at the disappointing fruits of their
pains. Why did it so happen? They have failed to understand the truth, that it
is absolutely wrong to allow parents to give birth to children as they like. A
nation that forgets this truth is bound to be hated by other nations.
Such people blame others; they become envious of others, who are happy.
Very recently a few experts have studied this problem in its true
perspective and brought out the realities.
They are of the view that people should not be permitted to go on giving
birth to children. They advocate a check on the growth of population.
Their views were further considered by the learned people, social
workers, economists as the correct view. They further probed into the
problem and found out the most progressive ways to be followed.
In Western Countries
Many wise people have already come forward to adopt those ways in life.
In Western countries the educated people are adopting various means to
avoid pregnancy. Many scientific methods and contrivances are publicly
advertised and propagated. But the poor people are not in a position to
understand and enjoy the benefits. In fact, it is the poor people, who should
first of all realize the need for family planning. Unfortunately the poor people
here consider it indecent and uncivilized even to talk about these things.
There are others who have strong blind belief in religion and god, who dislike
the control of birth as anti-religious and against god. They deem it sinful.
Naturally the ignorant people are also misled by them.
Opposition to family planning is not new or peculiar to our people. It was
also there in Western countries. But there, doctors and educated people
boldly faced the opposition. Today family planning has become a very
common thing there. Moreover there are a number of clinics. These clinics
tender advice and guidance to those who consult them regarding family
control. Appliances and drugs to control birth are being sold in the medical
shops.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 258

Because family planning has been recognized vital by experts and social
workers there, no one thinks it an illegal thing or sinful thing. Our people
should be educated to realize the importance of family planning. Family
planning is not harmful to any one. It does not cause pain or dissatisfaction to
any one.
The scientists have invented the means to control birth mainly in the
interests of the society and nation. There are other benefits also.
Pains of Pregnant Woman
It is very difficult for pregnant women to give birth to babies, if they have
ill health, if they conceive soon after marriage when their body is weak. To
illustrate further, ladies suffering from T.B. and Blood Pressure are found to
have very feeble wombs. If they become pregnant, there is bound to be a lot
of difficulties in the matter of delivering the child. Such women become very
weak after delivery. They lose strength and become feeble. A woman should
provide her milk to the baby for its proper growth. If she conceives again
before the child is properly grown up with mother’s milk, the first child
suffers from weakness. A woman should recoup her health before she
conceives again. If she does not mind her health and the health of the first
child, then she naturally becomes very weak to bear the next child.
Further if the woman who has not attained 22 years of age and a man who
has not attained 25 years of age marry and bring forth a child, that child is
bound to be very weak in health. If a family is very poor, the children born
become a burden and the family is thrust in eternal wants and worries. The
newly married couples lose the pleasures of life, if the wife conceives soon
after marriage.
So this pregnancy is more a misfortune to women for their independent
way of life. By nature man alone is responsible for pregnancy. His work ends
there. The women shoulder by nature greater responsibility. From the
moment they become pregnant they shoulder heavy burden till delivery and
even afterwards. The labour pain and the dangers connected with it are to be
borne by women only. It is the woman who gives her blood as milk to the
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 259

baby.
To keep the child free from certain diseases, it is the mother who has to
take care of her body and health. It is the woman who has to carry the baby
on the lap and bosom to caress and protect. That is why many women
become vexed with life after giving birth to more children.
Generally woman becomes a slave to the husband and to the family soon
after giving birth to the child. She is naturally forced to forego her desires and
facilities for the proper care of the newborn baby. A male is able to marry any
number of women he likes. But a woman is not able to do so because she
only bears the child. Because of this she has to risk her freedom, self-respect
and wisdom. As a slave, woman is made a machine for producing children.
So, I deem it absolutely necessary to impart sound knowledge on family
planning to all women folk.
Periyar wrote thus in 1931 itself.
It has taken many decades to realize the importance of family planning. If
Periyar’s views were properly heeded in 1931 itself the problem of
population control would not have become a tough task. Moreover the
society would have been very much forward and progressive.
octors Discussion with Periyar
On 18-8-1972 the Director of Family Planning Dr. Venugopal and other
doctors met Periyar at the Vellore Traveller’s Bungalow and discussed with
him matters related to family planning.
octor: We come from the Family Planning department. You are speaking
many rationalist views to the people. The people of Tamil-Nadu are much
benefited by your propaganda. You are aware that Family Planning is very
seriously propagated nowadays. We request you to strongly support it and
thus encourage us.
Periyar: I started it in 1929 itself. Now a days I find some response to
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 260

family planning. People today feel that the family should be small. If we are
to be more practical, mere propaganda is not enough. The government must
impose compulsory schemes. The marriage age of a girl should be raised to
22 years. Today we see girls bear three or four children by the time they
attain the age of 22.
Secondly even as the Communal G.O. (Government Order) is strictly
followed for giving jobs, we must give jobs to women proportionately. This
should be followed in giving jobs in all fields. If they are engaged in work,
there will be a good change. Today the only pleasure they derive is leading
the life and a husband and a wife. They have only one work namely,
producing children. Further the government should boldly say that a man or a
woman will not be given a job, if they produce more children. This view I
have expressed already many times. Those in service if they do not restrict
birth after the second child, their promotions to higher posts should be
stopped. There is nothing wrong in this. By nature we are endowed with
wisdom. Pardon me! If you have six children and your salary is Rs. 250 per
month, how can I expect you to be honest and sincere in the discharge of
your duties? What can you do with too many children? Would you keep your
children uneducated? No. If at all world is pestered with bad elements, it is
on account of these thoughtless parents.
Are all paid sumptuously? Say Rs. 800, 1000 so on. Now people get only
Rs. 150, 200, 250 per month on an average. If he has 4,5 or 6, children how
could he abstain from stealing. The government alone has the powers to
control the people and check the bad elements. If we pursue on these lines,
we will be solving the problem to a greater extent and the result would be,
man living as a man!
Preference to Women in Jobs
Those who have more children would simply say that no one can go
against fate. But those who are now bachelors would not say so. They will try
to live economically as Romans do in Rome. So the government should take
up such measures. First it should give preference to women in giving jobs.
Some of the jobs should be exclusively reserved for women only. For
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 261

example, the teaching profession up to the high school standard might be
reserved only for ladies. In that case they will be engaged in teaching and
preparing lessons. This must be the policy of the Government. Percentage
should be made sensible and practicable. All these things I have plainly
spoken. People must be made to have a thorough new concept of family. The
thought that a woman has to assume the role of a faithful servant to a man
must be changed. She can be the lover of a man. The thought of slavery and
responsibility should cease.
Further people derive the thought of compulsorily having a child, because
of ownership of property. We have given the right to own property. The
property needs legal heirs. Many people are worried about children to
safeguard property. Even if they have no children, they seek others and
“adopt” children as their own. So we must seriously think of measures to
restrict the ownership of property. We do not impart any knowledge to the
people of the nation. Today people are always thinking of sacred shrines,
tanks, rivers and their own castes and duties. We should try to change it. The
spirit of public service is seriously lacking in our people. We should induce
all in our society to think of the general welfare.
The urgent need of the hour is to raise the marriageable age of woman to
22. Then only women would be able to gain some useful knowledge about
society. Today women are quite ignorant of many things in the world. They
know only their family life. Some of the educated girls hold diplomas. But
they have no job. As things stand today such girls want to earn. They must be
provided with a job sooner they finish their educational career. Then only
they will not be longing for husbands. Even if the life of a married woman is
unpleasant, she bears the cruelly of the husband, as she has no other way
open to her. So I feel every woman must know a trade. If every woman is
given sufficient training in one or more trades, they will have more
confidence and try to lead the life of a wife with honour, merit and self-
respect.
Forcible Family Control
octor: May we have your views on operation method?
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 262

Periyar: There is nothing wrong in that. Till all people gain sufficient
knowledge, it has got to be followed. If there is nothing wrong in doing so on
medical grounds, it can be freely pursued.
octor: There are many peoples as coolies and casual labourers. What is
your advice to them. Some people do not believe in family planning. Unless
you tell them they wont believe.
Periyar: They must be forced, I have been telling it from 1929, operation
must be strictly enforced.
There is nothing wrong in teaching these things to our boys and girls in
the schools. Teachers should be made to carry on intensive propaganda.
People should realize that no government would be able to provide all
facilities to every one, if the population increases fast. An over – populated
country means a number of miserable families and worried parents. Today
people think that government compels them for something. Those who
observe family control are misunderstood as being tempted for mere money.
That is bad. So even women should be engaged to preach the importance of
family planning. Then we will be successful in the matter.
* * *
[This report of what Periyar talked to the learned doctors clearly reveals
that Periyar is perhaps the first social reformer who thought in India over the
most difficult problem even during the days of the British domination. His
progressive outlook, his sincere love towards humanity are seen in his talks.]
* * *
Periyar’s opinions continue
Many people were actually shocked at the views I expressed about family
planning, But, of late it has become a very ordinary subject talked about
everywhere. It is gaining its importance gradually. Those who are holding
high posts are seen talking about it. Even in the Legislative Assembly we find
the elected representatives pressing for propaganda on birth control.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 263

But there is much difference between us and others regarding the causes
listed for the urgency of Birth Control. We deem it necessary to control the
population. Others want birth control to safeguard the health of women.
Some others want it for the country’s healthy economy and in the interests of
property ownership. Even the learned men in Western countries say the same
reasons. But our views are quite different, even though we do not differ much
with them. Our emphasis is on a much more important reason. We want the
women folk to be liberated. We are for their freedom and equality. It is
because women bring forth more children, men are also losing their freedom
and virtuous qualities. You could have heard of what men and women talk
when they are confronted with difficulties.
Men usually say, “If I am all alone I won’t leave it, I wont keep quiet. I
would fight against injustice.” I have four or five children. I have to maintain
them. I have no other go than to live as others tell me.” Women say “If I am
all alone I would silently go away anywhere or else I would die in a river or
tank. I won’t tolerate this sort of life even a minute. But what am I to do with
these children. Where can I go? What can I do?”
That is why I say that more children usrup the freedom and pleasures of
men, and women. Today people have to bestow their knowledge and manual
labour to eke out their livelihood. They forfeit their self-respect and work like
slaves because of more children. It is mainly because they shoulder the
responsibility to protect their too many children. It is generally found to be
true in our country in most cases. It is more applicable to our womenfolk,
why? Our women have no property rights, no trade or avocation and no
specific regular-income. They have to depend on their livelihood to bring up
their children. That is why we say that women should control births. This
pregnancy is the root cause for premature deaths. We find Brahmacharis
(Bachelors), Sanyasins (Saints), Sankaracharis (Brahmin Heads of Hindu
Monasteries), Thambirans, Pandara Sannadhis amongst men. They lead a
very happy and prosperous life with freedom. They lord over crores of
rupees. They are much revered by men and women. But do you think that a
woman can ever attain that status? No. it is all on account of this pregnancy.
Whatever might be the difference in approaching the problem of family
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 264

planning, we are glad that the motive behind is same in all namely, restricting
child birth.
Children should be taken as State Property
I was very much disappointed to find the Health Minister opposing the
family planning propaganda in the State Assembly. Dr. (Mrs.) Muthulakshmi
Reddi also endorsed the views of the minister. (She was member of the
Legislative Council of the compsite Madras Province in late 1925.) If the
children born are taken up as the State property and if the government had the
responsibility to provide all means to children till they attain the major age,
the minister would not have attacked the family planning scheme. Such a
state of affairs is nor prevalent now. Somebody gives birth to children.
Somebody loses self-respect. Somebody suffers. That is why our Helath
Minister decries the family planning! It is a pity that the woman member,
who is herself a doctor, and the minister have forgotten to realize that for us
to become a healthy state we have no other go than to control births, To the
public, I appeal very sincerely to adopt family planning, whatever might be
the ways of our government.
So far as I am concerned, I would say that family planning propaganda
should be given priority. We should give the utmost importance to it. It is
more important than the propaganda against the spread of infectious diseases.
We would deal with the problem of Birth Control first and foremost. That is
my firm view.
I appeal to the people to create a separate organization for this purpose.
That body has to publish notices, small pamphlets, books etc. on the need for
family planning. They should be published in many languages. Such a
literature is available in foreign countries like England. We could translate
them and educate the public .
I appeal to those in the Drama and Film industry to insert effective scenes
to propagate the importance of family planning.
It is only when we do all these things we will be able to see more and
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 265

more people realize the importance of Birth Control and family planning.
ar readers, in the above passages, you find the lethargic irresponsible
attitude of the responsible Minister of the Government and the reactionary
attitude of the elected members of the Assembly. It has taken a number of
years for the government to understand Periyar. It would have been a great
blissful benefit to humanity, if the leaders were more responsible in this vital
matter.
iscussion of Central Minister with Periyar
On 9-3-1970, Dr. Chandrasekar the Union Minister for Family planning,
met Periyar. He discussed about the Family Planning problem.
octor: You are the first person to show the way in the matter of family
planning, if I am right, I think you wrote about it in 1928. Please let us know
what prompted you to do so.
Periyar: I had the unique privilege of moving with all people from my
boyhood days. Whatever I felt, I used to say boldly. Whatever I felt wrong I
would condemn. To be short, I was considered a very talkative boy. As my
family was very respectable, people used to come and tell about their family
difficulties. I realized the difficulties people undergo when their family is big.
The husband and wife were not cordial on account of too many children in
the family. I had to think about all these seriously.
Once a neighbor at Erode beat his wife black and blue. I went and asked
him why he was so beastly. He simply told me not to interfere in his personal
matter. The way in which he behaved with me wounded his wife. I was very
much moved by her words and tears. She told me that she bore the torturous
life for the sake of her children. She was not for committing suicide. When I
asked her why she bore so many children, she simply said that it is all god’s
creation. This incident prompted me to write and tell my views first to the
people. At that time I read the news about the advancement in Western
countries in the matter of Birth control. I translated important details and
started propagating the Family planning.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 266

After my marrying Nagammai, she gave birth to a child and it died after
living for five months. I do not remember to have seen the child. After that I
told my mother that no one need worry about it. I thought that child is a
nuisance for public life. In course of time it became deep rooted.
octor: Was there any opposition to Family planning in those days.
Periyar: The people used to say that I supported Birth control just
because I had no children.
octor: Our Family planning programme is the biggest in the world. What
is you opinion about it?
Periyar: It is good the government has taken it up seriously. It will help
the people in the long run to live happily.
One thing more must be done. We should induce women to carry on this
propaganda. You know generally our ladies are very fond of children. We
have to educate them through women propagandists. We should make good
and respectable women do the propaganda work. Moreover we should see
that the propagandists, whether they are males or females, have no fanaticism
about god or religion. Rationalist outlook should be deemed as a qualification
for carrying on Family planning propaganda.
octor: it will be very difficult task for us to find such people. May I know
your views on the marriageable age of women
Periyar: Unless you fix now 22 years as the age for marriage to girls, we
may not gain much. My suggestion will help the women folk in many ways.
They will be able to improve their status. They will be able to study more and
learn things. They will gain knowledge of some trade. The more we raise the
age, say to 22, much would be the benefit.
Nowadays a girl becomes a mother of two or three children by the time
she attains the age of 20. They are likely to be spoilt. We can avoid these, if
we raise the age to 20 or 22.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 267

octor: We are gradually restricting the number of children. Now we
propagate that only two should be the limit. But when both are girls, the
parents crave for a male. How are we to convince them.
Periyar: I will tell you. Reserve 50 percent of jobs for ladies in all
departments. If you make it compulsory, the parents will not feel sorry at all,
even if they have no male child.
octor: Won’t the males oppose?
Periyar: No! Parents want a male child because they think that he will
support them after studying and securing a job. If you give 50 percent of the
jobs to ladies that feeling will disappear. Equalize jobs between males and
females. Sister, daughter, etc, in a family would work, and support the
family. Naturally males would be happy.
Periyar’s warning at Trichy Meeting
In a striking speech at Tiruchy, Periyar emphatically warned the people
that one who does not care to limit his family would one day repent.He said:
“Of all the living beings, man alone is endowed with rationalism. It is
rationalism that makes him think about the good and bad. It gives him
knowledge of the better ways of life. Man alone could think and act with
freedom. He alone could keep away from worries and lead a happy life.
But what do we see today? He is worse than beasts. He has lost his
freedom. He has become a mere slave. He is immoral. He is rid of the virtues.
With his treasure of rationalism he could live peacefully. He need not
stoop to immorality and degradation. Is there a man who is now free from
worries. No, would be the answer. What made him like that? Think over.
First and foremost he has lost self-confidence. He thinks that he cannot do
anything. He thinks that he is a slave to destiny. He thinks god alone is the
doer of all things.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 268

But in practice man does everything. Man does not leave anything for god
to do. He does not keep quiet and see god doing things. Yet people believe
that god alone does everything. See how foolish our people are. That is why I
say that even though man is the only rational being, he is deprived of using it.
More than 90 to 95 percent of the people are found to face a miserable life.
Not only that, they are not the least worried about honesty or morality. Most
of them are not able to lead a life of freedom. They are dependent on others.
What is the cause for all these? Why should man be subjected to these evils?
When we begin to think, we see that of all the reasons, people suffer mostly
on account of not restricting births.
Generally people suffer mostly on account of their big family. People
even forget themselves. They are always worried about their children. How to
feed, clothe, educate and bring up children? These thoughts always pester the
human beings. Elders are worried to amass wealth for their children. This
thought of children in the mind of people naturally leads them to sufferings
and miseries. It prompts them to venture boldly on evil deeds. Because our
men are in the majority, no one is really ashamed of it. Even rich men are in
the majority. No one is really ashamed of it. Even rich men fail to assert their
rights if they have three or four children. These are the disadvantages of
giving birth to more children.
Why should man seek to have children, I ask only five or ten percent of
the husbands would have the motive of the people having a child, as he is
engaged with his wife. It is the natural instinct in human beings that makes
them have intercourse. Even though every one is aware of this fact, when we
ask a man why he goes on producing so many children, he simply says “Am I
responsible for it?” This answer is given by educated people, graduates and
doctors also. Even great luminaries in the field of science reply that man is
not to be blamed. You know why they say so. Their motive is to keep away
certain unfavorable factors. They want to keep away from the blame. For his
foolish act, he does not want to own up responsibility. He evades with a
motive to escape from the blame. He only dupes himself.
Population is a serious problem
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 269

There were days when we were worried about the population. It was not a
problem then. But today people are more intelligent. The population has
become a problem to be seriously attended to. Bringing forth children is
today an unwarranted work for humanity.
1000 years ago bringing forth children was not a foolish thing. More
births meant more deaths. But if we think of our future, advancement in
science has increased the longevity and curtailed the death rate. We have
modern medicines for almost all diseases. Diseases cannot claim deaths as
they did in the past. We could not say as in the past ‘god gave children – god
has taken them back’ Care of children is made easier nowadays. Parents need
not struggle as in the past. People are aware of the precautionary measures
and are provided with suitable medical aid now a days. The talk of god’s
work has become out of date. That is the reason for the fast population
growth.
We must thank the Britishers. When they ruled us, they introduced
modern medical treatment. They gave us some wisdom. It is difficult to die
now a days. Every one lives a long life. Death is not an easy matter in these
days.
Our population has increased abnormally in a short period. If the
Britishers had not come, our birthrate and death rate would have been almost
proportionate. People would have deemed it god’s work.
Today (in 1973) the average life of a citizen is 50 years. People easily get
treated by doctors. The fact is killing diseases as Cholera and Small Pox are
almost controlled. There were days when people were afraid of god
punishing them for getting medical treatment.
Today (in 1973) the population of Madras is 30 lakhs. If there is an
outbreak of cholera, the health officer would be called for an explanation. He
cannot reply that goddess Amman claimed 8 deaths last week. He will be
taken to task, if he does not take the steps to control. It is his duty to prevent
the disease. He will have to report that there is no death due to cholera. He
cannot bring in god or anything to his rescue. It is because of this change in
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 270

life that deaths are prevented.
I purchased one lakh square feet of land at the rate of Rupee one per
square foot. Today the taxation authorities estimate the cost as Rs.70 per
square foot. Even if any one is to offer this rate I would not sell, because the
land is needed for our work. As the population increases, there will be dearth
of land and the value would spiral up.
Not only that, My father told me that 8 full measures of rice were sold for
one rupee in his days. Even for that people had no money. Today one
measure of rice itself costs two rupees. Today the production has also
increased 3 or 4 times more.
As the population has increased so much, all efforts to increase
production has made the society suffer more. Where lies the mistake? Are we
to blame god or people? They have blindly continued to produce children.
None is worried about it. Only today some people have come forward to pay
heed to the wholesome Family planning scheme. In those days it was not so.
People freely produced children. They believed that god gave them Children.
How is it right for people to go on like that now? As the death rate goes on
decreasing if the birth rate is not kept under check, naturally the population
would quickly increase. In the days to come no man would die easily of any
disease.
Take my case itself I should have died 40 years ago. Most of my friends
are no more. They all died at the age of 40, 42 and 50. I am now aged 94
years.(Periyar died on 24 Dec 1973. when he was aged 94 years, three
months and seven days) I am well off. It is all due to the medical aid I
received. Doctors make me fine, hale and hearty person. Today people go to
the doctor frequently. They check up their health.
As such facilities and medical aid and amenities are easily available,
people live long. More and more medicines newly made are available to
people. For good health you have various nutritive, energetic tonics, tablets
and injections. So please think over what the future would be? The
population would go on increasing. What to do for that? We should think
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 271

over.
Periyar’s first book on Birth-Control
Every man needs a house for shelter, an avocation to earn. He needs food,
clothing, education for his family. How is it possible without birth control? If
every one realizes, he could restrict the birth to one or two, then he will be
able to bring up his children well. The mother would also maintain her good
health. She will also feel it a pleasure to have two children. Both the children
could be well fed, clothed and educated. The government will not feel it a
burden when the population is controlled. A welfare state could be practically
realized. It is for these reasons that the government is taking so much pains
regarding family planning.
As the population was not a threatening problem there was no need for
the government to implement Family planning schemes in the past. I think
that the idea struck to me first. I wrote a book on Birth control some 30 years
back – When I first propagated the necessity to control birth, many people
were irritated. I was accused of blabbering some nonsense. Religious fanatics
including Christians and Muslims slandered me. I was not worried at all. I
continued to warn the people about the future. No one understood me till
1950. Everyone turned a deaf ear. Even now they are only gradually realizing
the importance of family planning.
If we do not control the population, it will be a distress for us in the
future. People cannot live with peace or with integrity and honesty. Poverty
will increase. It is not possible to pay higher salary or wages according to the
increase in number of children. Whether you have two children or eight
children your pay or income will be the same. Your difficulties will go on
mounting, if you go on adding children. You will have to depend on others
more and more.
When a person is transferred to a different place, he is unwilling to go. He
says “I have so many children. How can I go all of a sudden! My wife is
pregnant. How could I go! If I go, my family will get spoilt.” They say so so
many things. Is the government responsible for all these?
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 272

Yet they blame the government. So it is wrong to go on bringing forth
children recklessly. Such people court difficulties, worries, hardships and the
become slaves to others losing self-respect and tolerating all insults. We
should blame our foolishness.
People crave for a male child so that his dead body could be lit by his son.
They want a son so that the may perform certain foolish rites after his death.
Those who have no children are discarded in certain castes as sinners. It is
said that it is sinful even to eat in a house where there are no children. How
roguish these things are! Some people hoodwink the public saying that a man
without a child goes to hell. It is all because of these irrational thoughts that
the society is immersed in eternal worries.
All these issues have been discussed in my first book on Birth-Control.
oes God Help Earning?
Only a few people are above wants. It may not be even 20 percent of the
population. Majority of the people have hand to mouth existence by working
on wages, by drawing carts, pulling loads carrying weights. Soon after
marriage, people go on bringing forth children every year. They have no idea
of their future life. They say that is all god’s desire.
When we ask them whether god is aware of their income and whether god
would give more, would he show you some other good way to earn more,
some people throw the blame on their wives. Some people blame the mother-
in-laws. These are all things we should be ashamed of. Is there any benefit to
the society and the world on account of the abnormal increase in population?
Over populated counties are backward. People suffer with difficulties in life.
If the society is to be well off, the only way is to control the population.
People should not think about having more children. People should realize
the welfare of the society and the nation. By intensive propaganda we should
effectively educate the people before making laws. We must not show any
sympathy to any one who brings forth a third child.
Moreover in the matter of marriages, there is no government control over
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 273

the society. Marriages take place and production of children too goes on
unrestricted. The government should forbid girls getting married before they
attain 22 years of age. This will help to tackle the problem of over
population. This will pave the way for the brilliant person to do something
useful to himself, his family, and the country. It will give scope for the
women folk to enter into various fields. Our women know only to bring forth
children, cook food and look after the needs of their husband. By these our
progress has been hampered. Most of them do not know anything about the
outside world.
People should be rid of the thought that god alone is capable of doing all
things and that man is merely a slave to god. Man is empowered to act with
wisdom. To those who believe that man is not responsible for what is taking
place, I would like to say onething. These are days that children are brought
forth by keeping the semen of a male and the egg of female in a test-tube.
Such is the fast advancement in science. The scientists may even find out a
way for life without intercourse. I wrote about all these in 1938 itself. The
semen of the select males with robust health and intelligence may be injected
into the womb of select women.
Rationalist Movement Gaining Momentum
We must take steps to educate the people. This problem of illiteracy keeps
our people in darkness. If our people are to gain a knowledge of what is
going on in the outside world we must educate them. Somehow our people
are having a sound knowledge of so many gods, their births, their families
and their wonderful stories. These have made the people blind. We should
crusade against all blind beliefs. People must be made to realize, that god is
not all-powerful. They must realize that it is foolish to depend on god for help
or guidance. There is no such god that answers to the call of people. It is
sheer idiocracy to trust god. Fellows who have created so many gods, have
not created even a single god that is helpful to humanity. They only created
religions, institutions, absurd literature and meaningless rituals, only for their
own survival. If any god is good to us we may welcome. Why should we
accept a god for the sake of mere belief?
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 274

If any one asks anything or raises a doubt, he is dubbed as an atheist. This
tendency has created a blind following. That is why man is not freed from
blind notions. Only now there is a little awakening. Men are coming forward
to question. Rational outlook has begun to glow. Our Rationalist Movement
is opened to all. It has gained momentum.
I do not say that people should believe what all I say. Think. If one is
satisfied that what I have said is true and believable, then only you should
accept my views.
I do not want any one to follow me blindly. You are all rational beings.
You can think and seek the truth.
We must make our people realize that family planning is a necessity.
Unless our population is checked we will never see a welfare state. We must
enlist the co-operation of all people for birth control by imparting adequate
knowledge to all the illiterate sections in the society.
God is the creation of very very ancient man
When, why and how I got the courage to oppose and dispose god,
religion, divine doctrines, saying of our ancestors, etc.? These were things
that originated some two thousand to three thousand years back, when human
civilization was nothing short of barbarism. That period lacked any scientific
knowledge. Not only that, people were ignorant of the very sense of growth
and development.
The epics, mythologies and other religious stories and scriptures bear
witness to this. Even today this trash of religious ignorance is being believed
by 90 percent of the population; majority of the pundits, language teachers,
the so-called scholars who have got B.A., M.A., and even Doctorate degrees.
They believe in and practice these in their lives.
votion is nothing but believing this imagination of the barbarian times and
instituting, celebrating and propagating shrines, festivals and holy days in
accordance with that imaginary God. When such is the condition of the
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 275

present day religion and religious people how barbarous those ancient people
would have been!
Periyar
PERIYARANA
Translation By
Prof. A. M. Dharmalingam
[Late - lamented Prof. A.M. Dharmalingam was a great rationalist and
ardent Periyarist and fighter for Social Justice. He retired as a Deputy
Secretary to the Government of Karnataka State and later on he became
Professor of Law in the Law College. A Prolific writer and good thinker of
Karnataka. He lived in Bangalore.]
1. On Astrology
[First Edition in 1977]
Astrology is closely connected with the casting andreading of horoscopes,
determining good and bad times, and reading the future. Jothisha is supposed
to read the past, present and future. A rationalist who carefully scrutinizes
astrology will notice that it is largely connected with religion. This is because
astrology is based as much on superstition as religion itself. The stars and
planets or good days taken into account in astrology have all legends attached
to them similar to the ones in the Hindu Mythologies (Puranas). The
characteristics attached to some planets and stars seem to have been drawn
from the fantasies of the religious fables.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 276

Connection with Soul (atma)
While one religion attaches imaginary characteristics to the stars, planets
and days another has none of it. Further, like the Hindu religion, astrology is
interconnected with Soul (atma), past birth, deed (karma), fate, sin and virtue.
All this is no more than speculation.
Some religions do not accept astrology. Indeed some religionists regard
astrology akin to atheism! So far, no scientist has accepted the truths or
imaginations of astrology, and it has come nowhere near science. Even
palmistry or chiromancy, chicromancy or the art of feeling the character from
facial expression or the body cut, augury of the art of omens, have all not
been accepted by science.
Why science neglects?
If there is really any truth in astrology, and even otherwise if it could do
anything good for mankind, the great scientists of the world who discovered
the radio, the telephone, and the atom would not have left astrology severely
alone. People who have discovered and measured the life springs in plant life,
flew high into space or bored into the earth for hundreds of miles would have
taken the help of astrology if there was any truth in it.
Governments that have established mammoth research laboratories for
various faculties would certainly have sought to improve the lot of mankind,
if there was anything to be gained by setting up a research establishment for
astrology. The absolute total neglect accorded to astrology by science is an
important matter to be taken into account.
Fear of unpopularity
To add to the various superstitions engendered by religion, should
astrology with its speculative superstition be permitted to complicate the
onerous existence of mankind?
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 277

In expounding my views on astrology, it is possible I have erred wholly
or partly. It may be I am not fitted to express an opinion on such an ancient
art that has attracted mankind’s interest for millenniums. But people who
know the truth about astrology are not ready to come forward to publicly
denounce it for fear of becoming unpopular. A denunciation therefore from a
layman may atleast, I hope, call for a defence of the art of astrology on a
scientific and statistical basis and that way I will have raised a useful
discussion on this controversial subject.
Astrology and Hinduism
Hindus believe in all sorts of things. The deity dancing in men, the spirit
of the dead speaking through a medium, ghosts attacking people, causing
disease or death through black magic, causing annoyance and misery through
the play of little devil, enticing people by mesmerism, shaping of one’s life
by past deed, are all strange things in which Hindus hold belief for the
purpose of improving their own lives or causing trouble or death to other
people’s lives. The amount of time, energy and money wasted by people on
these indefinite arts are immeasurable.
Like wise astrology is another art in which Hindus have firm faith, and no
inconsiderable time and money are expended on this account. To all intents
and purposes, the result of belief in all these false or indefinite arts is
suffering and more misery to the people, who resort to these things.
Priest class’s exploitation
The astrologer, the magician, and the temple priest have always been the
prime and the foremost exploiters of the people’s greed and superstition. The
trades of these three parasites are interconnected and of mutual benefit.
In indicating ahead the bad times and crises of a man, the astrologer
directs the victim to a priest to perform special prayers (archana and
abisheka) to please the planetary gods (navagraha) and obviate the danger
from them. ‘Peace Prayer’ (“Shanti” pujas) to soften or submerge the anger
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 278

of the gods is the result of the astrologer’s prognostications.
Conspirator’s Peace
In addition the victim of the astrologer will take the services of the
magician to cover or controvert the displeasure of the deities. Ordinarily the
magician will also be a country quack. In prescribing a course of treatment to
soften the angry planet, the quack will prepare a big list of articles to be
purchased to last for a span (mandala) of 48 days or so. If the planet to be
propitiated for ‘peace’ (“shanti”) happens to be Sani (Saturn) or Sevvai
(Mars), the course would be more rigorous and expensive. The course will
cover lighting the temple premises for a period of 48 days (mandala), reading
or hearing Mythology successively for a period of 48 days or half of it.
In the name of the malevolent planets, it will be seen that the astrologer,
the magician and the temple priest exploit the people and relieve them of
their hard-earned income. In order to obviate the suspicion of self-Interest,
the three conspirators will take care to benefit the petty trader and street
beggar or sage, for the ‘Peace’ (“Shanti”) course will always mean purchase
of numerous things from the grocer and sometimes the feeding of the poor or
the mendicant. The victims are therefore encouraged to believe that they are
only propitiating the gods and not feeding the conspirators.
What is Astrology?
Astrology is not limited to predicting the future and indicating the good
and bad things to come. It goes further to insist the measures to be taken to
counter the ill effects of the planetary conjunctions, as if the poor and
miserable antidotes taken by man could set aside the powerful and terrible
future already drawn and irrevocably set by the planets!
Time of birth
This happens to be a very intriguing proposition. What exactly is the time
of birth is not determined by anybody for purposes of astrology. Is it when
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 279

conception takes place in the womb, is it the time when life is supposed to
start in the fetus, about the fifth month, or is it the seventh, eighth, ninth or
tenth month when birth takes place? Is it the time when the head shows first
or to the world outside of the mother the time the child completely leaves the
mother’s body? Is it the time when the midwife hastened the birth by her
manipulation? Or is it the time when the doctor takes out the child
unnaturally by a Caesarean Operation?
The general opinion seems to be the time when the child finally leaves the
body of the mother; and for our further discussion we shall adopt this as the
time of birth.
Turn to heavens for time
Ordinarily it takes a little time to find out, if the child born is dead or alive
and whether it is male or female. It takes a little more time for the news to
reach the menfolk waiting outside. To note down the time at once the man
must have a timepiece at hand. If he has one, one must be certain that the
time is correct. If the watch is absent, one will have to look for it in the
neighborhood or look at the heavens to determine the time as in olden days.
All these considerations may result in a wrong time being noted. A wrong
time means a wrong horoscope.
It has been estimated that in a population of 270 crores in 1957, for the
whole world the birth rate was 170 per minute, or 10,200 per hour or
2,44,800 per day or 8,81,000 per year in India with one ninth of the world’s
population, the birth rate is calculated to be 9,800,000 per year or 456 per
hour or 19 per minute.
Horoscope for animal?
When birth is at the fast rate of 19 per minute, the birth rate in the much
longer period of one lagna (conjoining period of birth time and SUN time)
will be very high. To club together all such children in one lagna appears far-
fetched for purposes of prediction, though, however, the lagna will differ
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 280

from area to area of the globe. One lagna is 5.25 naligai or 126 minutes.
Let us suppose that a child is born in Bramadhi year, Purattasi month,
Wednesday 2nd at about 10-30a.m. in Scorpio (Vricchika) lagna, and astha
star. Noting this time, if a slip passed on to the astrologer, he is supposed to
cast the horoscope and predict the future. The being born at this time may be
a human, or an animal or an insect or the finished table or stone idol. This
will not matter. The astrologer will proceed to cast the horoscope.
Confusion worse confounded
In India during one Scorpio (Vricchika) lagna of 126 minutes, 2520
children are born. Taking Tamilnadu alone, it can be said that at this lagna 25
children were born. The constellation of the planets and stars at this lagna
cannot be different for most parts of Tamilnadu and to say that the fate or
character of these 25 children would be the same because of the same
planetary conjunction would be absurd.
Is man’s future determined by this actions, or by the effect of the planets
(grahas), or by his past deed (karma) or by his fate? If one of these is
responsible, the other three seem to be superfluous. If all these things
influence his future, it only means that confusion is worse confounded.
Nothing is determinate and the whole thing is speculative and imaginary. To
say that all these aspects have their individual impact upon man, is to easily
escape responsibility and make the man helpless fatalist.
Effect of planets (grahas)
To change or soften the effect of planetary conjunction through prayer,
worship, peace (shanthi), Rymns (manthras), etc, as already discussed, is to
carry superstition to the extreme limit. How would it be possible, for
instance, to shift a malevolent planet (graha) from one house to another
through man’s religious or superstitious acrobatics? The astrologer’s
prescription of remedy for a course of religious or magical exercises can
therefore be only a trick to deceive the victim. If such simple human
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 281

superstitious remedies could alter the effect of the planetary conjunction that
took place at the time of birth years ago, the very art or science of astrology
would be disproved.
The remedial prescription given to change the course of the horoscope or
past deed (karma) is to give the secret away - the secret being that the art of
astrology is all humbug. But without these prescriptions, the three arch-
exploiters, as stated above, cannot subsist. It must therefore be apparent that
in order to find easy living for unscrupulous gangs of astrologers, magicians
and priests, the indefinite, inexact, and imaginary art of astrology has been
invented. This will flourish so long as people are not rational free thinkers.
Astrology is the subject in which a prediction is made of a man’s future
based on the position of the planets and stars at the time of the man’s birth.
Astrologers go so far as to indicate the man’s time of death, his pains and
pleasures, the crises in his life, his wealth or his poverty, his avocation, his
health the time of the marriage, this children, etc. Indeed there seems to be no
aspect of a man’s future life, near or distant, that is outside the purview of
astrology.
No one has verified
If this proposition is true, it follows that the future of many other people
who are in some way related to him or would be related to him, could also be
predetermined. For instance, if a man is to grow rich, or obtain a promotion,
or contact a disease, the circumstances leading to these changes must also be
present. Hence the planetary positions that indicate the man’s future must
also indicate the circumstances that give rise to the incidents in the life of the
given person. The profit and loss resulting to others by the action of “A”, as
also the profit and loss obtained by “A” as a result of the actions of others,
must also be indicated by the planets. No one has verified the inferences by
statistical methods.
Horoscope of thief
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 282

For example, let it be supposed that the property of a certain person is to
be lost by theft. Unless the planetary positions indicate the event of the theft
in the horoscope of the thief, the loss cannot be indicated in the former
person’s horoscope. The horoscope of the person must indicate the theft at a
certain time and the horoscope of the thief must also indicate the thieving at
exactly the same time.
Murder in horoscope
Likewise let us suppose that a person “A” has to murder “B” at a certain
time according to his horoscope. In this case, “B” ‘s horoscope must also
show that he is to be murdered at the same time as the murder is indicated in
“A” ‘s horoscope. Unless there is such correlation, no event involving two
persons can ever happen. We must even go further and say that the
horoscopes of inanimate objects such as a dagger or a revolver must also
indicate the use to which they would be put at a certain time, as otherwise the
said event cannot take place. People do not take their analysis or thinking
thus far and the tragedy of their innocence or credulity lies there.
Horoscope of animals
Just as it is possible to draw the horoscope of a human being and predict
the future for him, so also it must be possible to draw the horoscopes of all
living animals and growing trees. In fact astrologers are found to say that the
time the making of an idol is started or completed, will tell us the future of
the idol whether it will become a prominent and famous object of worship or
will just get thrown away as useless. If this proposition about the making of
an idol is true, it must also be true of every other object that is manufactured
in this world. Clocks, lanterns, vessels, chairs, etc., must all come into the
picture. The time one of them was started to be made, or the time when it was
finally made, or the time of the purchase, must be adopted to draw their
horoscope. The variations that we notice in a human being’s life are also
noticed in the time of any other object, animate or inanimate, not all of them
have the same even course of existence and end.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 283

One horse becomes a monarch’s durbar horse and enjoys great attention
and respect. Another born about the same time pulls a cart (jutka), and is
subjected to a life of toil. The difference according to our astrologers must be
traced to their date and time of birth. When they were born at the same time
and place, where is the truth about astrology?
Idol and other stones
An idol is made from rock and installed in a Hindu temple. There it is
adorned with precious jewels, worshipped six times a day, washed with
different liquids everyday. Dressed in costly apparel; and what is more,
beautiful nautch girls daily dance before the idol and the idol itself is married
every year to the merriment and spirituality of a concourse of devotees. The
idol is also taken out in grand procession to receive the homage of the
populace. The other block of stone cut out of the same rock and at the same
time is used to pave, let us say, a public latrine. There the stone is daily
trodden on by the dirty chap - pals of a thousand people, who spit on it or
commit nuisance on it, and the scavenger washes the stone perhaps once a
week with soiled water and a stinking broom. When the fate of these two
blocks of stone is so different, it cannot be denied that the reason is due to the
planetary positions at the time the blocks took their “birth” from the rock,
according to our astrological science.
Hindu Monastery Head’s elephants
Hence it has to be admitted that if astrology is true for man, it must also
be true for the other animals, plants and rocks. The absurdity of the situation
as explained here must be plain to everyone. The planets cannot act only on
man and not on the other objects on the earth.
It is not uncommon to see people carefully noting down the time of a
horse’s or an elephant’s birth and casting horoscopes for them. Race horse
owners do this for horses and Kings (Rajas) do it for their horses and
elephants. The Head of Monastery (matathipathis) must also be doing it for
their temple elephants, as otherwise the science of astrology would lose its
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 284

meaning. If therefore horses and elephants can be subjected to horoscopes,
fowls, snakes, lizards, ants, worms, insects, etc., could also be given the
pleasure or the privilege of horoscopes being drawn for them. The time the
seeds shoot out of the stem may be noted down and the future for plants and
trees drawn for them.
Head or limb?
A part from these reasonable suppositions, one has to see what exactly is
meant by the time of birth. Beginning with labour pains, the childbirth takes
place slowly limb by limb. In most cases the head appears first, either the
skull or the face showing first to the earthly light, The limbs coming out first
is not also uncommon. If the appearance of the head is the time of birth, one
has to know whether it is only when the face shows. In some cases the time
taken for the full birth from the time of the appearance of the head runs into
hours. If the time when the child finally leaves the mothers womb is to be
taken as the time of birth, how exactly is the time to be determined? A day is
divided into 16 muhurthams. Each muhurtham extends to 3.75 to 5.50
naligais. Each star is said to have about 60 nalligais. Babies born at the same
time in a given area of the earth must all have the same planetary
conjunction. All births and deaths taken place in the world must be covered
by these time factors.
Boy and girl matched
Assuming that it is possible to predict something by looking at the
conjunction of the planets at the time of birth, how is it possible for the
planets to have anything to do with the affairs of men in their daily
livelihood? There are different conjunction at different times, and why should
the conjunction at the time of birth alone influence mean? There are hundred
occasions in a man’s life that are either significant or important. To make
matters more confusing the speculative astrologers are known to note the
time when people go to consult them and predict things based on that time.
When the time of birth is in doubt or missing, astrologers content themselves
to make predictions on the names of parties. Do the names of the boy and girl
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 285

proposed to be matched agree? Worse still , you are asked to name a number
and on that the prediction is made and your future is sketched for you. Some
others would have your name a flower or an animal to start the prediction.
The part of the body that may be touched by a subject seems to give the clue
to the omniscient astrologer. One wonders if it can be so simple as all this to
predict a man’s future.
Is science amenable to all these tricks? If guesswork and speculation
could determine things, there appears to be no need for exact sciences at all.
Science is based on correct knowledge and exact calculations. Without rules
it is impossible for life to go on. It is only religion and astrology that are
prepared to proceed on blind belief, guess work and speculation.
Past Deed (Karma) and present life
There is also another interesting aspect to his astrological work. Why
should a man get a certain conjunction of the planets at the time of this birth?
Religionists explain that past karma determines the present life of a man and
therefore the particular conjunction of planets. God has therefore to choose
correctly a conjunction of planets in accordance with a man’s deed (karma) to
project him into the world. The good or bad things said by the astrologer have
to be unquestionably accepted by the people because they feel satisfied that
what the astrologer said had already been determined for them by their past
deed (karma). But it is not clear whether the future is determined by a man’s
past deed (karma) or by the conjunction of planets at the time of birth. To get
over this difficulty. It has been said that the conjunction of the planets is
made to suit the deed (karma). Yet we are also told that karma can be altered
by strenuous efforts in the present birth. This only makes confusion worse
confounded. One does not know therefore to what extent or degree one’s life
is moulded by (1) the deed (karma) of the past birth, (2) the position of the
planets at the time of birth, (3) by the position of the planets at the time any
important act is attempted in life (4) by the particular name given to one by
his parents, (5) by the fate or acts of others, (6) by the action taken in one’s
own present life, (7) by the influence of the dead souls who are being
propitiated the living, (8) by one’s prayer and piety, (9) by the characteristics
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 286

obtained by heredity and environment, and (10) by the action of god himself.
Common proverbs
As already stated, no man can murder another at a particular time unless
the murdered person had also been fated to that end by his past deed (karma)
and action. The actual responsibility of the parties concerned reduces
therefore to negligible proportions. It appears therefore to be absurd either to
condemn the man who commits murder or to pity the man who is killed, as
neither could help the event. This fatalist theory would only make people
either reckless or cowardly.
“Will the god who wrote destiny or death then erase and write a new?”
“Who can overcome fate?”
“Every one must reap the result of his past wrong deed (karma).”
Hell and heaven
When responsibility for all actions is thus shifted to non – personal
agencies like fate, one fails to see how people can either be condemned to
hell or rewarded by heaven or how they can acquire sin or virtue for their
actions. Punishment for crimes committed and rewards given for good done,
seem to be meaningless when the responsibility for them is really on outside
agencies like fate. Viewed from these angles it would be apparent that there
cannot really be a thing called astrology to predict the future events of a
man’s life. It is opposed to all scientific knowledge and has no rational basis.
It is true that Hindus, Muslims, Christians and other theistic people
believe in astrology. There are atheists also who fall into the trap. This is
because astrology has been raised by its protagonists into science and said to
be unconnected with god. The real reason why belief is so widespread is
because man is essentially a coward, afraid of the world and extremely
desirous of the good things of life. He, therefore, seeks to find comfort even
where he has no belief and takes the line of least resistance to swim with the
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 287

majority. This is how superstition gets entrenched and his brain to displace.
Why Muslims and Christians?
The people of Europe, America and Russia are all very advanced in
science, and if there was any truth in astrology, would their scientists not
have taken it up? Science is not bound by any religion. It is connected to the
intellect and wisdom of man. That scientists have so far taken no interest in
astrology is proof of the fact that there is no truth in it.
In fact, Muslims and Christians are not supposed to believe in astrology
and those outside of India do not have faith in it . The Muslims and
Christians of India, originally belonged to Hinduism before conversion and
they are not wholly free of Hindu thought. Constant association with Hindus
has led them unconsciously into belief in astrology. To the Hindus, astrology
is largely connected with religion itself and astrology is just one more
superstition added to their numerous other beliefs and practices.
All said and done, rationalists must set aside astrology.
************
2. Philosophy Behind Revolution
The article published in ‘Viduthalai’ on 13.6.1949
What is revolution? Is it a thing to be afraid of? Therehas been a
revolution in the matter of travel. Originally man moved about at the rate of
four miles an hour. If he moves in the air at the rate of 400, 500 and 1000
miles an hour, it is a revolutionary change. The man who continues to
perambulate at the same old speed of four miles an hour is very much struck
by the man in the air. But there is nothing to be frightened about in the
change, nor is there any danger to anybody.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 288

Ready for next change
Any old traditional habit that is sought to be changed will take the name
of revolution. People who are to be benefited by the change will welcome the
change. But people who are adversely affected by the change will naturally
try to oppose it by dubious means, conduct unhealthy propaganda against it,
and muster people’s resistance to it but revolutionary changes in the affairs of
men have gone on from time immemorial.
Every new effort towards progress has effected radical changes. We have
witnessed many and heard of many such things; but have any people or
country gone down under the earth because of these revolutionary changes?
After a certain amount of perturbation about the change and a little hesitation
to accept the change readily in the beginning, we have seen people slowly
getting accustomed to the change, and in time getting ready for the next
change.
King as Vishnu
Let us just examine the revolution effected in the political field. For a
very long time, kings were regarded as incarnations of God, reflections of the
divine, infallible arbiters of justice, etc. Hindu Sastras (Doctrimes) also
expounded similar theories. Till recently Hindus regarded king as Vishnu’s
representative or reflection on earth. What is the position now? The need for
the existence of kings has been challenged. Kings have been found to be
inconsistent with the self-respect of the people. Rajabhakthi (Devotion to
king) has been equated to a slavish mentality. In accordance with this change
of people’s attitude, we have noticed in our own lifetime the extinction of
many kings both in the East and in the West. Is this not a big revolution in the
political world?
What is the disaster that has come about by the abolition of kings? Which
is the country that received the wrath of God by way of earthquake or fire or
flood because of the execution of the divine kings? Did the tongue of any
man who preached this revolution burn miraculously or did anybody lose his
head? Sixty or seventy years ago people dreaded to speak ill of kings or
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 289

governments. There is not one Purana (Mythology) or Sastra (Doctrine)
which has spoken ill of kings and called for revolution. Yet how is it we treat
with total indifference the abolition of kings or rajas? Wherefrom did people
get this courage or enlightenment? It is certainly not got from God or
religion.
Untouchability
Likewise, we have looked upon a section of the people as agents of God
on earth and certain others as not even fit to be seen or touched. Quoting the
authority of the Vedas, Sastras and Puranas, did not people fall flat at the feet
of these bhoo-devas (Brahmins) on the one hand and persecute and harass the
Untouchables on the other hand? Men who encouraged and taught these ideas
were venerated in this land as Sankaracharyas, Mahatmas, Gurus and
Brahmins. What is the position to-day? Untouchability has disappeared to
great extent. Do we not find Iyers, Iyengars, Sastrys, Rajahs,
Pandarasannadhis, Zamindars competing with one another, spending
thousands of rupees at the time of elections to get elected and sit beside the
same old Untouchables in the legislatures? This change in the attitude of the
people is a revolution.
Child Marriage
Our divine doctrines (Sastras) have proclaimed and still fulminate that
unless girls are married before they are ten years old, the unfortunate parents
will go to hell and the girls themselves exposed to promiscuity or
prostitution. Such declarations of our infallible rishis (sages) and mahatmas
(Supreme Souls), have now been thrown to the winds and the Government
has passed laws to say that girls shall be married only after they are eighteen,
and that if any girl of tenderage is married the parents will have to go to jail.
This is a social revolution. Nothing terrible has happened because of the
passing of the new laws. No god had descended from heaven to spread death
and destruction.
Gods, laughing stocks
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 290

Changes such as these in the political and social fields have been accepted
as absolutely ordinary things. What is more; they are regarded as eminently
desirable and reasonable.
Let us just see the travails of the God that created and sustained the world,
in our sacred land and see also the troubles of the religion that led us on the
myths to that god. The gods of our puranas (mythologies) have all become
laughing stocks of the people; and the religion leading to them have lost all
respect. Are these not revolutions in religious matters? And what is the
catastrophe that has happened? The only danger is the denial of an easy
livelihood to a handful of lazy Brahmin priests and their satellites. What
percentage of the population are they, and why should any body be bothered
about them?
Fortresses for priests
Because of these revolutions in man’s ideas and attitudes, we have come
to question about the need for kings, priests, castes, religions and Gods as
well. The present century has taken on a more revolutionary cry. People are
now questioning the very existence of rich people, capitalists and titled
barons. Why should these people exist? We are trying to see how far these
parasites are responsible for the misery of the proletariat – the poor of our
land. Are these not because we have learnt to disregard the fortress built
around the exploiting classes in olden days? God, Religion, Sastras, Puranas,
Vedas, fate, Karma were all fortresses built for the protection of the Brahmin
priest and the plutocrat. Somehow people have learnt to challenge and break
down these fortresses once considered impregnable and unquestionable. One
has to admit, however, that the struggle is not yet over. The enemy has not
yet surrendered completely. The fight is still on. The enlightenment obtained
in the older struggles steers the people for the next and more important fight.
The progress of the wheel cannot be stopped or turned back.
Throw them out
If only we reflect what has happened to the fortress built around the
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 291

ancient kings, it will not be difficult to visualize the fate of the Hindu priest
and the plutocrat in the struggle still going on. God, Religion, Vedas, Sastras
and Puranas were all on the side of the kings, and yet what has become of
them? The effort that is needed to throw them out, disregarding the fortress
built for them, is all that is necessary to fight the priest and the plutocrat still
trying to exploit the people. Because of the fact that the priests and the
plutocrats are more in number than the king, and more close to the people
than the monarch, the ramifications of their exploiting process are a bit more
comprehensive and complex; and therefore the progress of the fight for their
ultimate elimination will necessarily be long-drawn out, but the end is
inevitable. And there is nothing wrong in the struggle.
Can’t be stopped
The struggle for intellectual and economic freedom must be apparent to
all those who have wisdom and the will for progress. Government may try to
thwart the revolution by force and stop the process for a time; but can they
for ever succeed in fooling men? Revolutionary ideas cannot be destroyed or
stopped. The fortresses that stood around the kings did not save them; the
lesser fortresses that stand around the priest and the wealthy will not save
them. There must be and there will be changes here also, as the people to
benefit by their abolition constitute about 90% of the population. Surely a
system that exists for the benefit of a mere 10% cannot possibly exist for
ever. Some people think that sympathy for living creatures extends only to
stopping the practice of carrying fowls upside down or treating the gaping
sore on the neck of the ass. I believe that the prevention of cruelty to the large
masses of mankind through the inhuman and unhuman attitude of the
exploiting classes is the greater need.
3. The World to Come
How different is the world to-day from what it was some centuries ago?
How much more different it is going to be some centuries hence? These are
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 292

questions that naturally appeal to rationalists. The Vedic pandits (scholars) of
the Puranas and ltihasas (mythologies and Epics) do not raise these queries
and do not wish to understand the situations either. This is because these
pandits take the fantasies of the Puranas as true, live in them, and are almost
part of them. It does not bother them as to the practicability or otherwise of
the miracles and obscenities depicted in the Puranas. They are content to
believe that nothing is impossible for the god-head or for the avatars
(incarnations) of god.
Rationalists on the other hand are those who look at the present-day
world, examine the changes taking place in nature, and understand the
changes to which nature can be subjected to man’s benefit. Having examined
the present, a rationalist tries to deduce the past and construct the future on a
scientific basis.
Poison of fantasy
The pandits (scholars), in glorifying the ancient world of the Puranas,
would like to get back to them if they could. The scientists picture the future
every minute of their lives and labour to plan and progress towards a creative
evolution of which they are convinced. It is not our opinion that pandits of all
countries would be alike in their obscurantism.
We largely refer to the Hindu pandits of India. The education and training
imparted to our pandits is such as to prevent them from developing a
rationalistic or scientific attitude. What stands between them and reason is not
their innate intelligence but the type of education given to them. Having
slipped into the mire of the Puranas and itihasas, they are caught and
entangled by the snakes of god and religion and are unable therefore to sense
rationalism, which needs contact with the flower of nature and not the poison
of fantasy.
Founded supernaturalism
Our religionists are worse than our pandits. If the pandits would like to go
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 293

back to the puranic world of a thousand years ago, the religionists would like
to go to the good old yugas millenniums ago. These two types of people are
never satisfied with the ordinary happenings in nature. They delight in things
impossible for man beyond human reason. Supernaturalism is their rock
foundation. It is natural therefore for such pandits to imagine that the
scientific world to come is all evil and therefore not worth pondering over.
The people who take and follow their advice cannot help being superstitious
and irrational. People with a firm faith in the good old days of gods and rishis
whose word is the final word for them, look with suspicion on all those who
doubt the past and plan a future not linked to puranic (mythologic) ideas.
No Private Property
To a limited extent it must be admitted that the past has to be used. In as
much as we are children of the past, we cannot wholly discard it. It is also
impossible. But the aim should always be to discover new things and make
progress. The Westerners have progressed and invented numerous things
only because they are not satisfied with the past achievement or imagination,
and never have wished to leave the last word with the antiquities. It is with
their aid and achievements that it is possible for us now to imagine the future
world.
The past history of mankind and the opinions of great historians indicate
that there will be no monarchy in the future world. Gold and silver will not be
the monopoly of the privileged few. The future is socialist world in which
there will be no private property and for such a society, a monarch whose
authority is built on individual wealth and power would be inconsistent. The
means of livelihood and leisure will not be conditioned by the present type of
labour with all its difficulties and restrictions.
Why so much poverty?
The time spent on labour for purposes of livelihood is now long and the
time available for leisure to enjoy the fruits of labour is short. Food grains are
grown in plenty and consumer articles glut the markets but people are too
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 294

poor to buy and enjoy them. There is ample scope for individualism and
selfish vested interests but there is no real freedom for the people. They
cannot live independently without the vested interests. The means of
production and stock of resources are on the increase. Yet millions of people
go without the ordinary needs of life.
The land available for cultivation is extensive but landless labourers are
innumerable. In a world of plenty and beauty, why should there be so much
poverty, starvation, restlessness and struggle for existence? Is there any
concoction between these and God and the religions? People who connect the
world and its affairs to god nowhere seem to blame that god. Apart from
making god and religion responsible for the ills of the world, could it be said
that man has no capacity or intelligence to overcome these ills?
Reshaping the future
Man is the most intelligent of all living creatures. He has invented god,
religions, philosophies, and spiritualism. Many extraordinary men are stated
to have realized god and even become gods. But even such great men have
not found any solution for the miseries of the world. The reason could be that
people have not learnt to disconnect the affairs of the world from god and
religion and look on them independently.
There have been some scientific and rational men who could be able to do
some thing to alleviate the sufferings of man only because they had the
courage to disassociate themselves from god and religion. They refused to
take the world as they found it. Their optimism and solicitude for the
struggles of man egged them on to research and scientific inventions on the
one hand, and to rationalist thought on the other. This is true only of the
West. They have changed the face of the earth and are still engaged in further
reshaping the world of the future.
Why should people be born? When born, why should they struggle for
mere existence? And then why should they all die away? These are questions
that have always agitated and disturbed reasoning man’s mind. They are
being attempted to be answered in a rational way these days. A day will come
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 295

when the lives of men will not be merely reformed but revolutionized. When
that time comes, metallic coins will not circulate among the people;
plutocrats will cease to dominate the people; hard labour will be absent; mean
work will have vanished; slavery will be unknown, one will not live on the
mercy of another and women will not want special protection, safeguards and
support.
All differences will be wiped out
To-day it is possible for the Heads of Hindu Monasteries (matathipathis),
princes and Land - Chieftains called zamindars to have lives of pleasure and
leisure. In the world to come these people will cease to exist and their places
will be taken by all the people. With just an hour’s work or two, it will be
possible for the people to produce the goods they need. The rest of the time
will be available for leisure to indulge in fine arts or simple pleasures.
Communal life will have reached such height that the pains and trials of one
citizen will be the pains and trials of the whole community. Co-operative
effort and unitary feeling will have wiped out all differences and
discriminations.
No military
Wars of the modern type will have been abandoned. People in all parts of
the world will not indulge in the luxury of wars, fights and murders.
Unemployed vagrants will be unknown and there will be no deaths by
starvation. People will want jobs that would give them better physical
exercise. Wonderful scenery, Exquisite exhibitions and public sports will be
available for the enjoyment of all people and will not be restricted to the
privileged few. Private industrial promoters, moneylenders, merchant princes,
insurance agents, brokers, advertisers will all be absent in the future world as
they are all middle men profiteers. The navy, army and air force for
destructive or armed purposes will have no use in the co-operative world
state of the future.
Employment for all
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 296

There will be no need to struggle for employment. Every one will easily
find employment in accordance with his aptitudes and abilities. The efforts of
the scientists, economists, and industrialists, all working in the common
public sector, would be directed towards increasing comforts and amenities
for a happy life and life itself will be longer and more secure. However
extensive the needs of man, effort needed to produce them will be quite
small, because of the tremendous advance in technology.
No labour means nothing to eat
In days gone by, weavers use to labour hard and long to manufacture
cloth. What hundreds of weavers managed to produce is now being produced
by a single machine in a single hour. A weaver used to draw 150 threads per
minute. The textile machine draws 45000 per minute. A cigarette machine
makes several thousand of cigarettes per minute against 3 to 5 made by
manual labour. All that is required is to feed to the tobacco at one end. The
packed cigarette cases ready for loading into the railway are thrown out at the
other end of the machine. When such complicated machines are at work now,
the progress that will be achieved in the future can be imagined.
In fact the efficiency of the machine and the enormous quantity of
consumer goods it will produce, will be so high that it will be necessary for
the worker to labour just for a few weeks in the year. The rest of the year will
be available for other pleasurable avocations. Nobody need imagine that the
enormous leisure made available for man will be wasted and turn men lazy.
Just as means will have been found to make goods in short time, so also plans
will have been drawn up to make man spend his leisure hours gainfully so
that mischief may not spurt out of idle brains and health and efficiency may
not deteriorate for want of exercise and occupation. In a highly civilized state
there can be no room for laziness. If there are some lazy people, they cannot
impair the efficiency of the State. Those who do not labour shall not eat, will
be the rule of the future.
Scavenging by Machine
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 297

Will men be available for mean and dirty work? What is deemed to be
mean and dirty work nowadays will cease to carry such a notion in the future.
Scavenging, Sweeping, dishwashing, etc., will all be the job of the machine.
A worker will be engaged as operator of a sweeping machine as one will be
engaged on any other. It will not be necessary for any man to lift or drag or
push heavy weights. Machines will do that. In as much as there will be
dignity of labour what is now considered low and dirty will rank high in the
future and there will be competition for such unique work in the name of
social service and public esteem.
Poets, sculptors, novelists and dramatists will vie with one another in
creating new things for the betterment of the world. People of ability, merit,
and efficiency will properly be recognized and the rest will go unnoticed.
No misbehavior will be tolerated
In the world of the future, there will be no men without character and
culture. It will be possible for a man to behave badly, only if there is scope to
benefit in any way by so doing and there must also be people to connive at
his immorality. The conditions will be such that it would not be possible for a
man to conduct himself unethically and people would tolerate no such
misbehaviour. The new world will just give no room for the exhibition of an
individual’s personal whims and fancies, exploitation or aggrandizement.
Envy, jealousy and desire find expression when people of lesser abilities are
found to enjoy better benefits.
The depravity of modern character is founded on culture, justice and
discipline being used for maintaining caste and class differences among men
and for granting freedom to the individual to exploit the people for his
personal benefit. When these capitalist and individualist conditions are
absent, the need for depraved character will not arise. Similarly, thieves will
cease to exist, as no one will be left un-provided for. Is there any need to steal
water from the River Ganges for those living along its banks? Or do they take
more water than is necessary? Do they store water for tomorrow’s needs?
When therefore consumer goods; and foodgrains are in plenty and their
distribution is done according to everyone’s needs, the scope for their
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 298

distribution is done according to everyone’s needs, the scope for thieving or
taking more will be absent. There will be no necessity to utter falsehoods in
the future world, as falsehood would obtain no gain.
None need worry about the tribulations of the wealthy in the event of a
revolution. That would be a false philosophy. For the benefit of the thief and
in sympathy with his starving wife and children, nobody wishes to leave the
doors open when retiring at night. The precautions taken to secure the house
are as necessary for the householder as the precautions to be taken by society
to prevent the indirect and unseen theft of the poor people’s money by the
exploiting classes, whose means are a hundred times more unscrupulous than
that of the common thief.
There is no need, however for any kind of violence. There is, however, a
need to be prepared to meet violence from the aggressive exploiting party.
There is really no need for any rich man to be afraid of his future. The new
society will look after their material comforts, educational needs and
economic requirements of all people in the land. Even as it is, it is not the
poor worker and the peasant alone that suffer in an economic crisis that
sweeps the world.
The capitalist and the industrialist suffer as well as their troubles and trials
are not unknown to the people at large. The mental torture they go through to
amass wealth and later to preserve it is indescribable. The merchant suffers
mentally in loss as well as in gain. The loss does not always put him out of
the world. Gain always leaves behind the feeling that he should have got
more of it.
Socialism – ideal for all
No man is completely satisfied with what he gains or with what he has.
The satisfaction the capitalist has in the regard and respect which he obtains
from the people as a wealthy man is really small when compared to the
anguish he privately suffers all the time. There is really no such thing as loss
or gain in the ultimate analysis of things. People want to get rich only to
reach false and fleeting situations and not to obtain mental peace or spiritual
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 299

poise.
Hence it may be seen that nothing terrible will happen if the rich class
vanishes. For the good of all, the unhealthy ideal of becoming rich will cease
to bother the minority of our people and by diverting the energies of the best
man for the common good, the greater happiness of the larger mass of the
people may be ensured. In brief, socialism will be the ideal for all.
Big divide of rich and poor
The source for all human ills and loss of peace, is this big divide of the
rich and the poor. It is often maintained that man is the highest product of
creation and superior to all other living creatures. I am unable to accept this
thesis. If the condition of the present society of man is objectively examined,
only those out of their minds will regard birth as a human being as a great
and enviable achievement. I would rather say that it is wretched and dirty to
be born as a human being.
The so-called lower animals do not exploit and deceive their kind. Slavery
or mastery is unknown among the animals. They are not selfish and do not
spend their energies for the benefit and prosperity of their children or grand
children and for this purpose do not commit all imaginable crimes. Acts and
thoughts considered the lowest and the most abominable are to be found
practiced by man, supposed to have been made in the image of god. No ass
rides on another ass. No tiger rides on another tiger. But man does. Look at
our rikshaw pullers. I fail to see anything noble or good in man not found in
the animals.
Hasten the time for Revolution
It must be noted that God, king, religion, caste, sastras (Doctrines) all
have been used and still being used for the benefit of an infinitely small
section of humanity to deceive and exploit the larger section. Their only
purpose is to keep a small part of mankind in control and privilege.
Man’s birth and death are attributed to god. His doings, good or bad, are
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 300

also foisted on god. If that is really so, who can honestly say that all this is a
credit to god? Is there anything in man’s doings and condition for which god
can be praised? By making god the source of all things, are we not really
insulting, fooling, and belittling god? All this is false thinking and must be
eradicated and the time for revolution hastened.
There will be no prohibition of liquor in the future world and there will be
no bad effects because of alcohol. Social relations will be such as not to call
for murder. There may be sportive competitions among men, but not
gambling.
Love based on mutual freewill
Prostitution will be unknown, for the simple reason that unemployment
and hunger, which are the principal causes for that evil, will be absent. When
self-respect has attained a certain level, submission to another’s power will
not take place. When men do not wish to be slaves, neither can they be
masters. This will apply to the relations between man and woman. Being
equals in status, love will be based on mutual consent and free will.
Novelty, Change, and multiplicity will not actuate men of culture.
Physical health will be a matter of supreme importance to all people. For all
these reasons prostitution will be a thing of the past.
Average life of man will be hundred years
Communications will mostly be by air and of great speed. Transistors and
receivers would be in most men’s hats. Television will make such progress as
to enable people to talk to each other seeing each other’s faces through sets of
pocket size. It will be possible for a teacher to teach students in different
areas at the same time.
Food enriched with vitamins will be encased in pills or capsules sufficient
for a day’s or week’s sustenance. The average life of man may stand at a
hundred years or more.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 301

No sex-act needed for child-birth
Intercourse between man and woman may not be absolutely necessary for
childbirth. Test-tube children produced out of semen collected form the best
and the choicest of men may be common. Family planning and population
control will have been completely mastered both by the people and the State.
Consumer goods will be of different types and sizes; and their cost will be
within easy reach of the average citizen. Motorcars may weigh about one
hundred kilos and will run without petrol, with electric power generated in
small batteries or jets.
What will be the position of God?
Electricity will be everywhere and in every house, serving the people for
all purposes, making domestic duties more a pleasure than a drudgery.
No industry or factory will run for the private profits of individuals. They
will be owned by the community at large and all inventions and manufactures
will cater to the needs and pleasures of all people.
What will be the position or state of God in the world to come? This is a
question that naturally kindles everyone’s imagination.
This world converted into a paradise
God had not shown himself to anybody. He has been given a shape and a
name and a character by religionists and shown to the people as such. In the
world to come, there will be none to preach anything about god. People will
foget all about god. It must be noted that man will need an unseen power,
only when there is need for it in world conditions. Ignorance, fear, desire and
speculation gave rise to the idea of god in the ancient past.
In the future world, man will discover origin and cause of all things, his
desires will be evenly satisfied without much labour, and no man or group
will live on another man or group. When the world itself has been converted
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 302

into a paradise, the need to picture a paradise in the clouds will not arise.
Where there is no want, there is no god. Where there is scientific knowledge,
there is no need for speculation and imagination.
Worship of god would serve no purpose
The prime reason for the assertion of the existence of god to-day is the
existence of the universe. Who created this universe and who runs it? The
answer has always been god. This problem has already ceased to bother the
scientists. What is it in life that we regard as god’s work? Only what we are
not able to understand. For that which we understand, we do not bring in god.
It would be correct to say “we do not understand” or “it is unknowledgeable”
when anything is beyond human ken, and not unnecessarily bring in god.
This will be the attitude of man in the world to come. Even when some
things are understandable, the future man will not waste his time in
worshipping a god as the knower of all things, as he will be rational enough
to know that such worship will serve no purpose whatever.
No ideas about heaven or hell
The new world will entertain no ideas of heaven and hell. The need for
them is felt only when the world is full of bad men. No one will need
another’s charity in the world to come. Unless one is mentally sickened, one
will do no harm to another. Neither will he misbehave for his own advantage.
A brief sketch of the world to come has been made. Having regard to the
progress made by man so far, and the plans he has for the future in science,
technology and sociology, the picture drawn for the future cannot be far from
the mark.
Miseries of the present world to vanish
Even if the future imagined is speculative, there will be no one in his
proper senses who would not earnestly wish for such a world. Every one is
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 303

anxious that the miseries of the present world must vanish and that life which
is regarded as a burden must change into one of ease and pleasure. The
struggle for existence needs to be changed into a life of happiness.
Whatever be the future, if the people aim and work for a world as
pictured, much will be achieved. The average man’s vision will be widened
to cover all mankind, liberalized to treat all alike, and energized to strive for a
better world for all.
Not an atom moves without God’s sanction
A brilliant vision of the future will kindle men to stop thinking that
“nothing is possible for man; not an atom moves without god’s sanction.”
They will cease to blame god, karma (deed) and fate for the ills of the world,
the horrid differences engendered by casteism and their own selfish and base
motives. They will stop printing their faith to the hymns written in Sastras
and Puranas by somebody thousands of years ago, and take courage to think
for themselves with the aid of science and humanism.
The advance of true democracy and socialism will not be characterized as
“the world is going from bad to worse.” The vision will make men take faith
in the creative evolution of man. Man does not and cannot regress. His march
is towards progress, social equality and happiness for all. The vision painted
for him will urge him towards that goal.
4. On Buddhism
What the Buddhists believe and say in their worship are the following:
1. Buddham Saranam gachami
2. Dhammam Saranam gachami
3. Sangam Saranam gachami
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 304

The Buddhists all over the world start their religious activities, prayer and
worship with these fundamental words and end them also with these words.
The logic of these saying is that the followers of Gowdhama Buddha pay
their respects to and surrender themselves to the Buddham (the Chief), to the
Dhammam (the Teachings) and to the Sangam (the Establishment).
Unchallenged Guru
This kind of a fundamental tenet, in fact, applies not only to the
Buddhists, but to every member of an organization, to maintain a good and
high opinion of his chief or founder of the religion and submit himself to his
teachings to form part of the established order or association. Unless the chief
is dislodged from his eminent position, it is necessary for all the followers to
accept him unequivocally as their unchallenged Guru.
Buddham Saranam
It is only by treating the Guru as the wisest person that the organization
founded by him obtains the necessary strength and continuity; and the
followers thereby become sincere and ardent workers of the organization.
One who does not respect, love and obey the chief, can only be an insincere
and dishonest follower, existing merely for his own self interest and
livelihood. It is for this reason that every Buddhist starts his activities with
the pledge. ‘Buddham Saranam’.
hammam Saranam
The same is the reason for the next tenet, ‘Dhammam Saranam’,
connoting that the follower has surrendered himself to and has become a
slave to the teachings of the Guru without any conditions. If, however, a
follower were to disbelieve or disregard even one of the principles of the cult
or dhamma, he is in all honesty bound to quit the organization. That he is in
full agreement with the given teachings, is the pledge he makes by the second
tenet.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 305

Sangam Saranam
The third tenet, ‘Sangam saranam’ similarly obtains the promise from the
follower to surrender himself to the dictates and rules of the establishment to
which he belongs. In other words, the Buddhist undertakes to be a slave of
the Buddha, his cult and his establishment. Without such absolute surrender,
it is impossible for a person to be a Buddhist. I believe that total surrender of
one’s self and spirit to Buddha, his Dharmma and his Sangam, is what is
contained in the three principal tenets of Buddhist worship.
5. On the great Buddha
Why do we celebrate Buddha’s birthday? Buddhajayanthi does not mean
worshipping a picture or an idol of Buddha with camphor, cocoanut and
eatables. It means that we have decided to learn something from Buddha’s
life and teachings and follow them in our own lives. I am taken for an atheist.
If nastika means a person who denounces the Vedas, Sastras (Doctrines) and
Puranas (Mythologies), I am undoubtedly one. I believe it is right and proper
for a person of that description to speak on Buddha. A man who believes in
the Vedas, Sastras and Puranas must indeed be very clever to speak on an
occasion like this. He must be one who is well – trained in deceiving the
people and one who is hypocrite himself. It is not uncommon for such a man
to speak of Buddha as some ancient sage or mahatma (Supreme Soul) akin to
those he reveres.
Neither rishi or mahatma
Buddha was neither a saint nor a mahatma (Supreme Soul). He was one
who actually opposed the Hindu saints (rishis) of old times and that is why
we are here to celebrate his day. Just as Buddha is no rishi or mahatma, so is
Buddhism not a religion in the accepted sense of the word. Many people
wrongly regard Buddhism as a religion. A religion must have a god in its
center. It must have also things like heaven (moksha) and hell (naraka) and
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 306

soul and the lord (paramatma), sin (papa) and virtuous deed (punya). To be a
great religion, one god is not enough; there must be many of them. These
gods must have wives, concubines and all conceivable human relationships.
Indians are familiar only with such a religion.
Rational thinking the greatest attribute:
To start with, Buddha declared that it is not at all necessary for man to
concern himself with god. He wanted people to be bothered with man alone.
He did not speak about moksha (heaven) and (hell) naraka. He laid stress on
man’s character and right conduct. Wisdom with rational thinking, he said,
was the greatest attribute of man. A thing is not to be believed in just because
a rishi (sage) said it or a mahatma wrote it. It is absolutely necessary for
every intelligent human being to examine a proposition with his own intellect
and arrive at the truth himself.
Buddhism is therefore not a religion and we have pleasure in participating
in Buddha’s birthday only for that reason. Buddha’s rationalism called forth a
severe reactionary opposition. He lived Some 2,500 years ago when barbaric
religious practices were the order of the day in India. He stood up boldly
against the religion of the day; and the great opposition to his teaching is
proof of Buddha’s greatness and the power of his word. The people who
wrote and spoke after him to destroy his rationalist platform, tell the tale of
the stupendous efforts undertaken to revive the shaken barbaric Hindu
religion.
Reference in Ramayana about Buddha
The Ramayana has spoken ill of Buddhism. The Ramayana was rewritten
to take its later huge proportions to counter Buddha’s teachings. The
Ramayana which existed prior the Buddha was only a small story. The
Vaishnavite Nalayira Prabandham, the Saivite Thevaram etc. have taken
pains to ridicule and belittle Buddha. The Buddhists and the Jains have been
decried as atheists, robbers, murderers, and enemies of vedic sacrifices. The
Siva Bhaktas (devotees of Sivan) have prayed to Siva to give them the power
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 307

to molest the wives of Buddhists.
The meaning of Nastika
Buddha is ordinarily taken to refer to a person. Buddha means buddhi or
intelligence. Anyone who uses his intelligence is a Buddha. All people are
endowed with intelligence but only those who use it intelligently can be
Buddhas. The word Siddha conveys a similar meaning. Siddha is one who
controls his sense. God Vishnu is the center for Vaisnavism; but for
Buddhism buddhi or intellect is the center. To-day the word ‘nastika’
(atheism) is made to one, who denies the existence of god. But the fact is that
one, who denies the existence of god and uses his intellect and logically
argues about things is taken for a ‘nastika’ (atheist). People who denounce
Brahmanism are also treated as nastikas (atheists).
Twisted to all terrible meaning
Sometime ago a Buddhist conference was conducted at Erode. The Head
of the World Buddhist Society, Mr. Mallala Sekhara, very nicely said in his
opening address that we were all gathered there as so many Buddhas. The
Encyclopedia Britannica has described Buddhism as one which calls for the
use of Buddhi or intellect and which denounces blind belief.
To-day intellect is hardly given any place of importance. Schools and
colleges do not ask people to use their intelligence and question tradition,
reaction, and superstition. If a few do use their intellect, they are immediately
branded as ‘nastikas’ (atheists), an appellation that has really no meaning.
The rationalist has often to take great trouble to deny that he is a nastika
(atheist), for the term has been twisted to mean all terrible things.
Even the Buddha did not ask people to blindly believe what he preached.
He called upon them to weigh his words, sift them according to their
intelligence and accept that part of them which appeared to them to be
reasonable.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 308

Looked at heavens with naked eyes
Gouthama Buddha preached his principles to people 2,500 years ago to
suit their illiteracy then. The wisdom of the people had its limits. What was
said then cannot all be cent per cent true to-day or cent per cent applicable to-
day. To take the Buddha word for word to-day, is, to my mind, another form
of ‘asthikam’ (atheism). People looked at the heavens then with naked eyes
and could know only broad features. To-day we see through powerful
telescopes and examine the black spots on the sun. To believe only in what
the ancients knew is to limit human creative intelligence and purposeful
progress.
Aryanism made the country barbaric
It would be true to Buddism to assert that knowledge improves with
advancing times and that we must adjust our ideas in relation to the progress
made. Sticking to old ideas as the final word, is to betray intellectual
backwardness and stop all advancement in rationalism.
Buddha arose at a time when Aryanism had made the country a primitive
barbaric irrational land. The men who wrote the Sastras and Puranas were
intelligent in their own way, to suit their imperialist colonialist tendencies.
The good of the masses was never their concern. The Sastras and Puranas
prove the point beyond doubt.
Thiruvalluvar and his limitations
I have great respect for Thiruvalluvar; but he had his limitations. Even the
greatest work of the olden days could not exceed the available intellect of the
day or the progress then achieved by mankind. To say therefore that
everything said by the sages or the Buddha or Thiruvalluvar is the last word,
would be incorrect. Yet we honour Buddha and Thiruvalluvar for the reason
that it was possible for them and they had the courage to expound a
rationalist approach to Hindu religion and society at a time when people were
barbaric, and the majority of the populace serving as slaves for the benefit
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 309

and comfort of an infinitely small class of citizens.
Our religious people will believe and shout about the fantastic nonsense
found in the Puranas; yet when something about actual history is told to them
they do not hesitate to reply: “Do not believe in what the white man has
written about India”. These are people who dishonestly speak against their
own conscience and the populace they contact are devoid of all powers of
thinking. In the name of religion and the gods, the religious people have
learnt to wobble, anything they like, and it is immaterial to them whether
there is any correlation with truth or history. Religion therefore reduces itself
to superstition.
Puranas dated after Buddha
When stating that the history written by the Britishers must be
disbelieved, the Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan in the North India keeps on writing
about the silly Mythologies and the undemocratic Sastras. Mr. Munshi was at
the head of it. Dr. Radhakrishnan and millionaire Birla are important
members in it. They have produced a book on the “Vedic Age” and Mr.
Munshi has a great part in it. Even there it has been said in the foreword:
“The ancient days were barbaric. The Puranas and the Itihasas are not history
and they do not record the happenings of the period. It is all imagination. The
word ‘Vyasa’ means story writer”. The Puranas entered the people’s heads
and started to rule them; and that was the cause of our difficulties.
More than 75 per cent of the Puranas are stated to date after the Buddha.
To counter the rationalist teaching of the Buddha, the Puranic rishis (sages)
wrote the stories about the avatars (incarnations), the chief of which is that of
Krishna, to divert the people and attract them to Brahmanism. Miracles of
Hindu deities have always excited the special attention of the people and
Krishna’s epic is full of sex and obscenity. Having done this much, divinity
was also added to it and the Bhagavad Gita was written and added on to the
Mahabharata at a much later period.
“I mean a different thing by caste”
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 310

Where is the need to create a god-like Krishna in such an obscene sexy
environment and sing his praise in bhajans, dramas, and dances.
Krishnaleelas have also come on the cinema screen. The bhakta who claps his
hands or cups his palms in worship at the sight of Krishna’s promiscuity,
would not dare to allow the same god to visit his wife at home. Where is the
meaning in people not rejecting what their own conscience prohibits? Why
should there be festivals to celebrate a god’s obscenity, promiscuity and
adultery?
To-day none dare support the caste system. The exception to the rule is
perhaps Mr. C. Rajagopalachariar who wants casteism to continue. If
personally approached and questioned, he might say, “I mean a different
thing by caste.” How could there be caste without the support of the Vedas,
Sastras and Puranas? How is it ever possible to destroy casteism without
denouncing the Vedas, Sastras and Puranas? The one purpose of the Sastras
is to condemn the Non-Brahmins as Sudras and Pariahs and preserve for all
time the pre-eminence of the priestly class.
Praising Buddha and carrying on with gods?
Why has it become necessary for us to celebrate Buddha Day? If he is to
be classed amongst the Alwar and Nayanmar saints, it would be better not to
remember him. The Buddha Day is the enemy day for the Vaidiks (Hindu
devotees). The Brahmin press will not properly report the proceedings of a
meeting like this. Instead one will find announcements of a score or more of
puranic meetings and reports of these meetings and reports of these meetings
will fill the pages of the newspapers. How difficult it is to re-establish the
rule of the intellect and destroy caste in these conditions, may better be
imagined than described.
Which other country in the world has so many gods as ours? And why
should there be gods without character? No useful purpose will be served by
respecting and praising the Buddha and still carrying on with these gods. The
people who eliminate these gods will become Buddhas themselves. Gods in
human shape and given to human pains and pleasures, human crimes and
virtues, cannot be gods at all. The stories about the great Hindu trinity,
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 311

Vishnu, Siva and Brahma, are full of obscenity, sex, violence incest and
murder.
Washing the feet of dirty priests
The wonder of it all is that people who believe in these Puranas dare to
come and participate in the celebration of Buddha’s birthday as well. These
are people who believe that a charitable person is one who builds a temple.
These are people who think that piousness (bhakti) is expressed in knocking
the head on stone pillar, or in washing the feet of dirty priests. The truth
about Buddha is twisted and debauched by these puranics to nullify the great
achievement of the great rationalist of the world.
Not have the guts to destroy caste
Books about the Ramayana and the Mahabharatha are still being printed
and sold in thousands. What is the purpose? Is it not plainly to continue caste,
superstition, and the slave mentality? If true democracy with its attributes of
liberty, equality, and fraternity is to take root in India, the caste system must
be rooted out. There must be a government which can dare to do it. To-day
we have a government that speaks about the evils of the caste system, but has
not the guts to destroy it.
r. Radhakrishnan has had the courage to say: “We have removed the rajas
and zamindars. To obtain lasting benefit we must destroy casteism, and to do
that we must have men with iron hearts.” The government has the idea but
not the will to attack casteism. It is not our purpose to establish a godless
society. We want society in which truth and intellect rule as gods.
Buddha for our Revolutionary purpose
On the 23rd January 1954, we conducted a Buddhist Conference at Erode.
Why did we do it? Was it to make ourselves Buddhists? Did we call upon the
people to desert the Hindu religion and go over to Buddhism? No. For what
then was the conference called in the name of the Buddha? It was because we
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 312

find in the teachings of Gowdhama Buddha full support for all that we want
and for all that we want to destroy as degrading to the Hindus. Buddha’s
philosophy, his tenets, and his sermons stand by our Self-Respect and
Rationalist movements. The gods, creeds, Sastras, Puranas and Ithihasas that
enslave our people are the things we want to discard and Buddha’s teachings
and principles are of tremendous value to us for our revolutionary purposes.
An authority for our ideals
Some of the things we propagate to-day were taught by Gowdhama
Buddha 2,500 years ago. The Buddhism serves as an authority for our ideals.
When the Self-Respect ideals are propagated by a mere Ramasami, (Periyar)
there are some, who feel that he is not big or important. They think that I
could not be bigger than the Gita. For such people at least the authority of the
Buddhism is a great encouragement. It will not then be so easy for the
traditionalists to brush aside our ideals. They require to be told that
rationalism is as old as the Buddhism, and that nothing very much new is
being said now.
Accepted and worshipped by Hindus
For historical reasons, Buddha has been accepted by the Hindus. He is
even being worshipped. Yet history tells us that the Buddhists were subjected
to persecution and torture, their monasteries were burnt down, and their
religion very nearly suppressed in India by the Hindu fanatics. Some
Buddhists were set adrift on the high seas and left to die. In spite of all that, it
has never been possible for the Hindus to erase the memory of the Buddha
from the Hindu mind.
Brahmins made him Avatar of Vishnu
Finally the Brahmins were obliged to accept Buddha as the tenth avatar of
Mahavishnu, thus making Buddhism a sub division of the all – embracing
Hinduism, akin to saivism and vaishnavam. They may or may not have done
the right thing in those old days, but the fact remains that Buddhism did not
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 313

completely disappear from the Indian soil. The government of free India has
also found it impossible to forget Buddha. His teachings have been accorded
official recognition to the exclusion of those of Saivism and Vaishnavism –
the right and the left hands of Brahminic Hinduism.
harma Chakra in National Flag
The Buddhist symbol of the Dharma Chakra has found an honoured place
in our National Flag. The Asoka pillar at Sarnath consisting of the four lions
has been adopted as our national architectural symbol and this has become
the emblem which adorns the shoulders of all our military officers, the
bonnets of all our ministers, state cars and the post cards of every day use in
the remotest villages. Since independence, Buddha’s birth day has been
declared a public holiday.
Can our movement belittled
What do all these mean? It means that the government of free India has
accepted Buddha and his teachings. It has not been possible for the
government to adopt any Hindu symbol, Saivite or Vaishnavite as the
national symbol. This means that Hindu symbols are unfit for All – India
national purposes. I regard this as a revolutionary turn in our people’s history.
If therefore we point out that the Self-Respect Propaganda that we make, was
the subject of the Buddha’s teaching 2,500 years ago, it must be possible for
the people to realize that we are doing no more than what the government
itself has already accepted. It is therefore impossible for the Brahmins,
Congressmen, Pandarasannadhis, Sankaracharyas and Matathipathis to
belittle our /Reformation movement.
Kural twisted to suit Brahminic teachings
One of the subtle tricks of Brahmins was to accept rationalist teachers as
their own and then twist and turn their teachings to suit the undemocratic,
authoritarian Brahminic teachings. First they did it with Buddha. Next they
did it with Thiruvalluvar. Before the Self-Respect Movement adopted his
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 314

Kural as its scripture, the Brahmins and their Sudra slaves had also spoken
highly of the Kural only to twist its real meaning. Brahmin commentator
Parimelazhagar has imported into his commentary most of the Aryan tenets,
and almost succeeded in hiding the genuine truths of Thiruvalluvar thoughts.
It was only after we took up his Kural and expounded its real truths that it
started to shine once again in all its ancient glory and splendour. To-day the
whole land is filled with Kural associations and groups. More and more of
the Kural is prescribed for study in schools with less and less of the caste and
superstition-ridden texts of Aryan translation in Tamil like the Ramayana and
the Mahabharatha.
We are now doing a similar thing to Buddhism. The truth about this
religion is being propagated, to the dismay of the orthodox, tradition – bound
Hindus. Their jealousy anger does not however, bother us.
No wisdom in Saints’ teachings
Buddha gave the first place to rationalism. He refused to find wisdom in
the writing of the ancient saints or devine scholars. He wanted the people to
search for the truth themselves. Refusing comment on the existence or
otherwise of a thing called god, he proceeded to dethrone atma or soul, since
atma had been used as the spark of the paramatma or god, thereby bringing in
the idea of god in a different way. A spark of god cannot be the instrument to
gather sin and virtue, evil and righteous deed, since god has been described to
be perfect and all –wise. It was this incorrect inter-relation between the atma
and the paramatma (Soul and Supreme god) that came in for severe criticism
at the hands of Buddha.
Idolatry in all forms, the worship of personal gods, ritualism and
superstition were all condemned by Buddha. Almost everything held divine
and sacred by the Aryans received hammer blows in Buddhism.
Gods with murderous weapons
Archaeologists have proved that many Hindu temples of to-day were
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 315

formerly Buddhist Vihars. It has been asserted that even Srirangam,
Kancheepuram, Palani and Thirupathi temples were originally temples of
Buddha. Temples that once harboured the beauteous Buddha a full of grace,
love and compassion, were made to harbour warlike gods bearing in their
hands murderous weapons. There is hardly a Hindu god who does not sport a
deadly weapon to prove that these gods have some killing to their credit.
Saivites and Vaishnavites are loud in their talk about god being love. This is
all hypocrisy. This tall talk is belied by the very murderous appearance of the
gods. Where is the connection between love and violence? The strangest
thing is that in spite of the worship of the warlike gods, Hindus are by and
large the most cowards when compared to all other nations.
6. On Marriage System
Why do people marry? It is sometimes said that it is for the procreation of
mankind. But procreation is a thing found in all living creatures. It is not
special to man. The question is which came first, desire or creation. The
problem is similar to the problem as to whether the fowl came first or the
egg. These are questions beyond man’s comprehension and may have to be
left unanswered.
Liberty denied to women
Is monogamy a natural instinct in man? There is no monogamy in the
lower animal world. They unite indiscriminately and with different partners
at different times. It is said that some birds, like the dove and the maina
practise monogamy. To what species does man belong on this respect?
Double standard is the rule in mankind in general. Man has no compunction
to cohabit with many women but the same liberty is denied to women.
Origin of marriage
In the beginning man must have lived and cohabited like the animals in a
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 316

promiscuous manner. It was only when man acquired property and settled
down to live in a specified place that the idea of husband and wife arose. The
idea of private property led to separatism and individualism. Property thus
gathered is owned by the man till his death; and after him it is to be used by
somebody else. Who should that somebody be? Man desired that somebody
should be some one intimately connected to him alone. That somebody had
therefore to be his own undisputed son. There should be no dispute about the
seed being his own. Hence arose the principle of husband and wife and a
marriage system making it known to the people and to themselves.
Infidelity of husband
Property exclusive to man, therefore gave birth to marriage and chastity
on the part of the wife, to make sure that she bore children to her married
husband alone. The infidelity of the husband does not affect the legitimacy o
the children born to the wife. If women had owned property from the
beginning and passed it to their children, things would perhaps have been
different leading to single standard (i.e., same standard of chastity or fidelity
to man and woman.)
Connected with religion
Man has changed his environment beyond recognition. Railway, Post and
Telegraph, telephone, cinema, radio, television, aero plane have all changed
living conditions and the relations of man and man vastly. Even in India we
have adopted all these Western scientific achievements to enhance our
material comfort. The practices connected with marriage are one of the things
not yet subjected to change. This is because marriage is largely connected
with religion and there is a group benefited by religion and largely living by
it, and refusing to lose its grip on the traditional practices. Furthermore
custom is a hard thing to overcome, however degrading or obsolete some of
the practices may be.
Priest sporting cross-thread (poonul or Yagnopavitham)
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 317

Hindu marriages emphasis caste differences and the hierarchy in society.
The priest comes in as belonging to the highest caste, sporting the cross-
thread on his body and refusing to dine with the marriage party of other
castes. The marriage party invites the Brahmin priest on this basis and
therefore shamelessly admits that it belong to the lower Sudra caste. Scarcely
any thought has been given to this aspect of the situation by our people, albeit
educated and wealthy. All sorts of rituals will be done in the marriage hall;
and nobody will ask whether they are still necessary and whether there is still
any meaning in them. It is only of late that some marriages devoid of the
priest and his rituals are taking place in a very simple manner under the
pressure of our Self-Respect movement’s propaganda. But then such
reformed marriages are few and far between.
Husband not her lord or god
These are days when women are gaining their freedom and caste is losing
its stranglehold. In accordance with this progress, Self-Respect Marriages are
taking place in which the principle of equality between the husband and wife
is accepted. The bride here is not asked to promise that she will accept the
husband as her lord and god and that she will serve him always as a slave and
obey him without question at all times. Self-Respect Marriages are in a way
companionate marriages.
Thali, Symbol of wife’s slavery
Is the “Thali” or “Mangalyasutra” (the yellow thread with gold badge)
absolutely necessary for the performance of a marriage? What does it stand
for? It is said that the “Thali” is a symbol to indicate the married status of a
woman like many other symbols of married women. This symbolism is good
in so far as it will separate the married women from the unmarried and thus
prevent them from being pestered by the gallant youths. The objection,
however, is that similar symbols are not given to married men, thus once
again introducing the double standard for the male and female sexes.
Furthermore as for love marriages people do not obtain sanction in India, and
all marriages are arranged by the parents, there does not appear to be any
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 318

need to symbolically indicate the married folk. It is true that in village
communities, even the bridegroom was given some symbols like the silver
ring for the third finger of the left hand. But the bridegrooms took courage to
discard these symbols of men’s married state, while women failed to do so.
Hence, it is that the Self-Respecters regard the “Thali” as a symbol of the
wife’s slavery to the husband and hence plead for its omission.
Pandit’s explanation
Our pandits (religious scholars) tell us that the Thali had its origin in
ancient days in the context of brides giving their hand only to heroic youths
who would be brave enough to kill tigers and bring back as a souvenir of
their adventure, a tooth or a nail of the beast and tie the same to the neck of
their bride. If such a test is prescribed for the modern youth, it is doubtful if
even one in a million would prove fit for marriage. The pandits further
explain that in later times, with the advance of civilization, the tiger’s tooth or
nail got replaced by a silver or gold ornament. Whatever the origin of the
‘Thali’, it is incontrovertible that all along it has stood for the total dedication
of the bride as a slave to the groom, who can do what he likes with the wife.
The practice is bound to change, either because the woman has now gained
equality of rights, or because the meaning of the Thali has changed. It all
depends on the strength and courage of our women-folk in future.
No auspicious day or time
For Self-Respect Marriages there in no such thing as an auspicious day or
time. All days and all times are good for us. But for Vedic marriages
elaborate precautions are taken to select an auspicious day and time in
consultation with the priest or an astrologer. To effect a marriage match, the
horoscopes are got tallied, the names of the boy and girl must be appropriate
and then the day and time selected for the marriage must suit the particular
bride and bridegroom according to the so-called astrological science. It must
be noted that all this has been invented to fool the people, exploit their
ignorance, and make money in the process. In spite of our people’s faith in
astrology, there are perhaps more widows in India than elsewhere. The expert
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 319

priest or astrologer who casts the horoscopes and tallies has perhaps half a
dozen tonsured women in his house.
Tamil literature of two thousand years ago does not disclose the presence
of the Brahmin at marriages, much less the barbaric ritualism of modern
days. Tamil literature prior to Tholkappiam is lost to us. No people can
produce any literary work like Tholkappiam without a thousand years of
history behind it. All that work is lost.
Companionate agreement
Self-Respect Marriage is called “Companionate Agreement” This is a
term that we find in the Kural, the Bible of the Tamils, written two thousand
or more years ago by Thiruvalluvar, and it is the most appropriate word for
the contract. The Vedic weddings speak of “kannikadhanam” or “thara-
muhurtham”, to mean that the girl is taken over or given away to serve as a
slave of the bridegroom. The bride is handed over like any other chattel, a
cow or a vessel, with no rights of its own. This is essentially an Aryan
practice imposed on the Dravidian race.
Why should a girl after being bred lovingly for years be given as “dhan”
(alms) or charity? The purpose is to giver her no rights and to treat her as
private property. The husband is entitled to give or hire her to anybody and
the girl shall not question it. Our puranas are full of such stories.
The ‘thara-muhurtham’ (Donating Marriage) consists of a worse and
more cruel procedure. In this wedding the bride’s hand is placed on that of
the bridegroom and water is poured on top of it muttering the words Krishna-
Krishna. Thereafter without even looking back, the girl’s parents and
relatives get away quickly.
No God in Self-Respect Marriage
Self-Respect Marriages are not anything revolutionary. Here also we get a
young man and a young woman married to each other in the presence of a
large body of friends and relatives. All rituals known to tradition are avoided.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 320

The boy and the girl ex-change garlands and pledge to each other that they
will love one another, stand together in adversity as well as prosperity, share
with equanimity the pains and pleasures that would be their lot, and serve the
world to make it a better world than they found it. The marriage is therefore
rational, simple, secular and economical. These marriages are described by
the traditionalists as atheistic. If rationalism, a system by which everything is
reasoned out, is atheism, we shall not hesitate to admit ourselves atheists. But
the fact is that we have nothing to do with god. We do not bring in god on the
occasion of Self-Respect Marriage, as we do not bring him in for many other
social and political functions or contracts.
Hindu Doctrines no authority for us
The first victory achieved by the Self-Respecters is that the Brahmin
priest is not permitted to conduct the wedding. There can be no honour in
inviting a man to perform a marriage, when he can come only as a superior
being, who will not desire to touch us or eat with us. Hence it is that these
marriages are called Self-Respect Marriages. We do not allow anyone here
who thinks of himself as belonging to a high caste, and we do not permit
ourselves to behave as inferior people. There is an atmosphere of perfect
equality in Self-Respect Marriages.
The second victory obtained is that this is a rational wedding. The Sastras
(Hindu Religious regulations) are no authority for us the Dravidians. We are
free to criticize and discard the agama injunctions as being superstitious,
obsolete and barbaric. We have therefore abandoned all unnecessary antics.
The boy and the girl to marry here are absolutely equal in status. It may be
noted that in none of the eight types of Aryan marriages there is equality of
status between the sexes, for the woman is always treated as a lower and
inferior being subject to the power of man.
Where is the need to invite the Brahmin to perform the marriage? In the
first place he is not one of the Dravidian people. In the second place he does
not consider himself one amongst the people. In the third place he regards
himself as belonging to the top caste and the other people as belonging to the
low caste. To follow the Puranas is purohitam. To adhere to the Vedas is
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 321

Vaideekam. In both cases the Dravidian people are treated as Sudras meaning
heirs of prostitutes. Why then follow either the Puranas or the Vedas? Should
one take a line of action only to be ill-treated and insulted? Contact with the
Vedas, Puranas, the Aryan gods and the Brahmin automatically means
dishonor and insult to the people. Religion is expected to ennoble and elevate
people; but Hinduism insults and injures Non-Brahmin people. The presence
of the Brahmin at the wedding is an admission of our low status and an
encouragement to the Brahmin to exercise his aggressive superiority.
Bride and bridegroom shedding tears
The Dravidian people are in fact in no way inferior to the Brahmins. This
feeling has now largely come to stay. There is no avocation or occupation
barred to the people. The Brahmin competes with the Dravidian people in all
places on a footing of equality, thanks to Western democratic principles
implanted in India. In the circumstances why should we accept our inferiority
and the Brahmin’s superiority at the important occasion of marriage by
inviting him to act as a priest. Why invite and stand aloof in order not to
pollute him? Are we to admit that we are dirty people? Why invite him and
call him “Swami”? Is he a God? And what does he do, after all, beyond
collecting some provisions and vegetables for his tummy? Where is the need
to light the big fire in the thatched pandal when it only smokes up the place
and makes the invites rub their eyes? The bride and bridegroom appear as
though they are crying when the smoke stings their eyes. Is God to be found
only in the fire? Is he not everywhere and in everything? Is he not be found in
the electric light?
The third victory achieved in the Self-Respect Marriages as above is the
elimination of the Brahmin priest and with him all ideas or notions of graded
caste and separatism in Hindu Society.
Why should we hold on to a corpse?
The fourth victory obtained is the elimination of the Sanskrit language, a
language unknown to all, a language that is dead and gone. Sanskrit is used
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 322

only to belittle and insult our living mother tongues. There was time when the
Western nations also performed their marriages with a dead language, Latin.
But as soon as self-respect and regard for their mother tongues grow amongst
them, they gave up Latin. Why should we hold on to a corpse? Some people
will say Sanskrit is not dead, because it is still being studied and used by the
priests. In that case it is to be regarded as dead but now buried. It is therefore
a corpse. When our Dravidian languages are flourishing and living in all
glory and when Tamil in particular is older and more classical than Sanskrit,
why then insult the “MOTHER” by keeping her away from the most
important of our functions? In all Self-Respect Marriages, Tamil or the
mother tongue of the parties concerned is used. The pledge is taken in Tamil
and the leaders who preside at the marriages speak and explain things in
Tamil.
Fantastic Nonsense
Furthermore, the hymns called mantras uttered by the Brahmin priest in
Sanskrit contain a lot of nonsense. In one of the slokas, the bride is stated to
have so long been married to Devas, Rishis, Kinnarars and Kimburudars and
now is married to the bridegroom. Many other meaningless things are said
and done by the priest at the pandal, which if translated into simple Tamil
would appear as so much fantastic nonsense absolutely needless for the
wedding occasion.
According to court decisions, the important requirements of a Vedic
marriage are the Fire worship ‘agni pujaa’ and the seven steps taken together
by bride and bridegroom after they are declared husband and wife. The
presence of the Brahmin priest and the tying of the tali or mangalyasutra do
not seem to be important though these are invariably part of the ceremonies.
The presence of the Brahmin priest is perhaps not absolutely essential
because many communities perform weddings with their own elders, and the
Brahmin does not go to the Untouchables’ (adidravida) marriages.
Legal validity by the D.M.K. Govt.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 323

The courts once had not recognized Self-Respect marriages and the
people who conducted marriages in this style were some times put to
inconvenience. However, the law did not affect the poor. It was only
operative for the transfer of property. Now thanks to the Dravida Munnetra
Kazhagam (D.M.K.) Government in Tamilnadu and the late lamented Former
Chief Minister Arignar Anna, Self-Respect marriages are legally validated. It
will not be long before the State asks for all marriages to be registered and
the speciality in the Vedic marriages will then automatically Vanish. I also
visualize a day when a simple announcement in the newspapers to say that
two persons have agreed to live husband and wife will suffice for the purpose
of marriage. As it is, the Government is giving recognition to Vedic
marriages, thereby admitting the existence and perpetuation of the
undemocratic caste system, the meaningless rituals and superstition and
superiority of the Brahmin priest.
By refusing to recognize Self-Respect marriages, the former Governments
exposed themselves as irrational and opposed to democracy, secularism and
simplicity, all of which the then ruling party was supposed to espouse.
The undemocratic caste system persists mostly because of the bankruptcy
of intelligence on our part. A Non-Brahmin learned in the law will be a High
Court judge or an advocate. He is expected to be aware of the humiliation
cast on him by the hoary caste hierarchy. Yet he will get the Brahmin priest
for his son’s or daughter’s marriage and fall at his feet like any other humble
Sudra (Backward Dravidian). His education and his law in particular have
been all a waste. Similar is the wretched fate of many honourable Judges.
They still behave in the temples and in their marriage pandals as humble
Sudras. The fact is they give very little thought to the subject, and are loth to
fight tradition, for even a little change in custom brings on their heads the
change of atheism, disaster and death. The line of least resistance whatever
the humiliation involved, seems to be the ignoble criterion in their lives.
Same priest but language different
Perhaps many do not know that the purohit (priest) who visits Brahmin
houses is different from the purohit (priest) who visits other houses, although
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 324

they are both Brahmins. It is said that the Sanskrit language used in these two
houses is also different. The mantras (hymns) used in Brahmin houses are
from the Vedas while that used in Non-Brahmin houses is from the Puranas.
This is one more instance to emphasis the gradation in the Hindu caste
system.
The Self-Respect movement has given great encouragement to inter-caste
marriages and many have taken place. This is one more victory for the
movement in its fight against Aryan orthodoxy. According to Brahminism, a
marriage is said to be intercaste, if it is between a Brahmin and a non-
Brahmin and not when it is between two non-Brahmin castes. But caste
separatism has become so rigid that marriages between the sub-castes are
taken as revolutionary in character as those between the so-called four major
castes.
Different standards for men and women
The opposition that faced the parties to an inter-caste marriage and the
troubles they were subjected to later in life were so great as to shake out very
faith in the no-caste movement of the Self-Respecters. All honour therefore to
those who braved the ordeal in the early days. Things are much easier now
and very soon inter-caste marriages are bound to be more popular than ever
before.
Widow marriage is another item in which the Self-Respect movement is
interested,. Here again there is one standard for men and another for women.
It is unsocial and undemocratic. Even in our Puranas (mythologies) widows
have married again. This proves that in ancient days the practice was not
taboo. Even now the practice is found in many of the Backward
Communities.
Inter-caste marriage, Order of the day
It is a matter for congratulation that the Government has now reformed
the Hindu law. The part played by the Self-Respect movement since 1925 in
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 325

this regard is not small. Monogamy has been made the law. Widow marriage
and divorce are permitted. Women have obtained property rights and their
share with men in the estate succession is equal. No man can take more than
one wife, much less add a concubine to the household.
But unless people are properly educated and modernized, the law may
become a dead letter. Women’s education and liberty should advance to such
an extent as to make them choose their own husbands. When this situation is
reached much of our backwardness and superstition will vanish. Inter-caste
marriage will be the order of the day and no parent will run after a priest or
an astrologer to see if the horoscopes tally, names tally, dates tally, and so on.
Priest gangs will lose loot
India is perhaps one of the few countries in the world in which marriages
are not required to be registered. Quite a lot of disputes and litigation in this
country may be traced to this lacuna in the law. Marriages must be registered
like births and deaths. To-day only marriages performed under the Special
Marriage Act are registered. This is not enough. All marriages must be
ordered to be registered. When that is done the ceremony before the
Government Registrar will become all important and the gang of priests will
lose its lure and loot.
Children not God’s gift
While speaking of marriage, a word about family planning will not be out
of place. I wrote about birth control in 1932. To-day Government of India
itself has taken interest in it and opened thousands of clinics all over the
country. It is necessary that care is taken by the newly married to see that
they have no child birth for at least five years after marriage. After that it is
enough they have one or two children. Getting a child in less than a year is
not uncommon. What is the husband to do then? Caress the wife or the child?
He will find time for neither, as he will be burdened with worries and wants.
Times have now changed and religion no longer threatens the young
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 326

couple at every step. People have come to realize that children are no longer
God’s gift and also not God’s responsibility for rearing. It is within the power
of the married couple to delay, space or stop child-birth. God is out of the
picture now and for good.
Economy overcomes religion
Unlike the olden days the marriage ceremony is now restricted to one day.
Even the most orthodox Hindus does not hesitate to do this. Economy has
overcome religion, and for good gain. It is madness to waste money on
pageantry and paraphernalia. The money saved would serve the young couple
if invested in a bank or a house.
One last word. Selfishness should not rule the lives of the married couple.
To earn and live for themselves is not a good rule in the present day socialist
world. There must always be something for the outsider either in money, kind
or effort. The individual is linked to the society, and unless they intermix, co-
operate and combine, there can be no general happiness or uniform progress.
7. Materialism
With the advent of the Self-Respect movement in thecountry, and
particularly since it gained some popularity, a certain amount of intellectual
disturbance is noticeable amongst the people. At the same time the activation
of counter propaganda on the part of the people, who either live by religion or
enjoy privileges thereof, is also noticeable. This counter propaganda backed
by age old pietism and superstition, has, I am aware, unnerved some social
reformers and rationalists. For these reasons, I find it necessary to explain our
position in regard to God and religion so that the genuine rationalists and
those who would like to go with them may not be assailed by doubts or be
not unaware of the dangers.
Probe into the mysteries
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 327

Let it be understood at the outset that we are people who are not in the
least bothered about god or religion and that our principal purpose is to break
the shackles that keep our people away from happiness, knowledge and
freedom. Strictly speaking, there is no need for Self-Respecters to probe into
the mysteries or magic or god or religion; we have been obliged to do so only
because these are persistently thrown before us to thwart us in our purpose.
Out of ignorance
It has been maintained that only those, who believe in and worship the
heroes of our Puranas as gods, are theists and the rest are anti-god and anti-
religion. Nevertheless, it would be desirable to examine what this god or
religion is, why they were created, and whether it was out of fear, from good
or bad motives, or out of ignorance. For this purpose it would be enough to
examine the nature of God, described as a being without a name or form, and
of religion, held up as useful to mankind. It may not be necessary to go into
details into which religion is divided or subdivided, for the very simple
reason that the propagators of the different religions have already spent much
energy, time, and money in condemning the beliefs and practices of one
another and damaging each other in their missionary zeal. The result,
however, is that one has failed to convert or destroy the other and has ended
in each just trying to save his particular gods, prophets and creeds and
practices. No one has been able to justify his god or creed on the basis of
wisdom, justice and truth.
Children tutored of god
Let us see how and when the god-idea came amongst men. The idea must
certainly have arisen only after man had grown up and begun to think,
because even today, man begins to speak about god only after he has been
told and taught about it from childhood onwards. It does not come of its own
accord. It is only after little babes are shown idols and other objects as
“Samis” (Deities) or gods and made to worship them by the elders helping
the little ones to cup their hands, or join their palms that they begin to learn
about god. Even so, the idea about god must have come to ancient man only
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 328

after he was born on earth and before he reached the thinking stage. And yet
the thing called god is taken to be responsible for the creation of the universe,
its maintenance and destruction,
When was Sakthi made?
The question is how and when this primeval energy personified as Sakthi
came to be identified with God by early man. So far as our country is
concerned, we can only find the causes through our popular gods. The earth,
mountains, wind, fire, sun, moon, rivers, stars, rain, lightning, dreadful
diseases, monstrous animals, etc. make up our gods. It must be plain at a time
when the ancients were not able to know the truth about all these things, they
made them all gods for fear of them. The Mountain Himalayas for instance
was considered to be and worshipped as the seat of gods, from whose head
the rivers originated. When people knew nothing about the lands beyond the
Himalaya Mountain, all those lands were regarded as celestial lands even as
the southern and eastern lands were taken for “pathala (subterranean) Ioka”
and “Naga loga” (World of snakes) respectively.
Even magic was godly
Even to this day, man ascribes divinity to all those phenomena that are
still beyond his intellect and research. Do we not see youngsters and
illiterates regarding the magician as doing something divine just because they
are not in a position to see the tricks behind the magic? The attitude of those
of us who know the truth with reasoning, is simply to dismiss magic as a
combination of tricks expertly done in swift movements, about which we do
not know the details, but in which we are certain there is no divinity. Hence
what appeared to the same person in his youth as something divine turns out
to be simple magic as soon as he is able to judge things for himself, purely
because the man has acquired some knowledge. What appears to the layman
even now as divine, has ceased to be so, for the scientist. What is still awe-
inspiring and divinely wonderful for the Easterner, has been laid bare as
understandable truth by the Westerner.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 329

Snake swallowing sun and moon
There was a time when our people regarded eclipses of the sun and the
moon as the evil manifestations of invisible monstrous snakes called Raghu
and Kethu periodically perpetrated on the sungod and the moongod. We have
Puranas to say that the sun came under a curse to suffer periodic eclipse, and
that to save the sungod from the danger, all people had to take a bath and
propitiate the great god. It must be obvious that these beliefs arose at a time
when people did not know much about astronomy. Like wise, when the
causes of formation of clouds and rain were discovered, the clouds, the rain
and the rivers ceased to be gods.
Gun-powder and god
Fear of epidemics and ignorance of methods either to prevent or cure
them, created for the people many more gods and goddesses. With the
advancement in the principles of hygiene and medicine, the propitiation of
deities for diseases like cholera, plague and small pox has become less and
less. With the invention of gunpowder and fire-arms, the fear attached to wild
beasts like the tiger and the lion got obliterated. What therefore is still beyond
human ken, continues to enjoy divine powers, but is sure to dwindle as
science and technology progress. What is godly to one is otherwise to
another, and this is dependent of the stage to which the one and the other’s
knowledge has reached.
Sentimental satisfaction
To-day when the Westerners invent some gadget, which we do not
understand, much less make for ourselves, we do not immediately credit the
Western scientist with divine powers. We must be proud I suppose of that
much progress, but so long as full and complete knowledge of the world is
wanting, the idea of god will persist. The man who is disappointed after hard
labour and expectation, and the man who is unable to make good any serious
loss, will continue to obtain sentimental satisfaction by ascribing the result to
divine powers or fate.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 330

Blame or praise for failure or success
A being or power that is above us controlling all things, acts as the source
of hope and refuge in danger for the uninitiated. But those who try to
understand nature, either are aware of human limitations or are prepared to
admit that certain things are simply beyond their understanding or control. It
must therefore be clear that ideas about god and divinity differ in accordance
with the state of scientific knowledgle of different people. The blame or
praise accorded to god for failure or success in life varies in proportion to the
intellectual advancement of different people.
Science has opened up many of nature’s mysteries and exploded the
miracle in many phenomena. It can therefore be said that faith in god
progressively declines with advancement rational in knowledge; and where
there is less of science there is more of god in lands where rationalism has not
made much headway, people discern the hand of god in almost everything
they touch and see. We still notice among our masses some people getting
god – possessed. It is only among barbaric people that stories about gods and
goddesses possessed of all human and beastly passions find favour.
Puranas believed no more
People, who some time ago believed in the Puranas (Mythologies) as true
stories of god-men on earth, are to-day hesitant in their avowals; but in order
to cover their ignorance and vested interests, they try hard to import science
into their old Puranas. Indeed they are finding it hard to retain the faith of
people, who are increasingly taking courage to reject whatever science has
proved to be false and make-believe. Artificial rain, bringing back the dead to
life though for a little while, the radio and the cinema, have all emphasized
man’s inventive genius and ability to conquer nature. Even the masses have
not failed to be impressed by these scientific achievements though it must be
admitted that their old faith in tradition and superstition, though shaken, has
not disappeared.
The intelligent man is in general an arrogant man. He thinks himself to be
all wise and therefore refuses to admit the truism “I do not know” when
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 331

anything is beyond his reach; instead he quietly brings in god to his aid. It is
not easy to change this nature unless wisdom is available in full measure.
There are those amongst us, who for selfish reasons and material gain, will
continue our blind faith, though subjectively convinced of their untruth, only
to continue our exploitation of the credulous masses. There are many, who
can subsist only if religion and superstition prevail; and they will leave no
stone unturned to keep their trade going, whatever the bad effect on the
people.
Fist error committed by man
Early man, when he emerged from a savage nomadic existence to settle
down in colonies, found the need for some rules of life, for no co-operative
society or association can function even for a day without accepted or
enforced rules. These rules of conduct slowly developed into religion. To
enforce these rules, penalties were imposed for disobedience. When penal
provisions were found not to act properly, or when people were found to
disregard the rules in private or act against them in secret, the rulers must
have deemed it necessary either for public good or selfish ends or both to add
the sanction of god to the rules. When people were told that the displeasure of
the gods would attack them, even when rules were disregarded in private
homes or secret places, the enforcement of order in society must have
become easier and simpler. Indeed the rulers must have found that it was
easier to deceive and exploit the people in the name of god and religion, by
saying that “god made the rules” and that “god would punish them for
disobedience, if not in this life definitely in the next life”, and so on. I believe
that this was the time when man committed his first error.
“My religion is truer and bigger”
To examine the nature of the rules of conduct, it has to be noted that the
physical condition of the country, the character of the people, and age of
civilization, in other words, place, people and time, have mostly determined
them. The innocence and ignorance of the masses and the selfish
aggrandizing tendencies of the privileged and exploiting classes also played a
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 332

large part in determining the rules, more particularly of the latter. When
however the rules do not suit a certain section, either because of the lapse of
time or a change in the condition of the people, a section detached itself from
the main community and set itself up elsewhere, either by simple
colonization or by conquering and subjugating weaker people in a distant
land. Thereafter a new set of rules or a new religion in some ways different
from the old one slowly evolved itself, and more often than not stood in
opposition to the older religion, giving room for the fanatics to say, “my
religion is bigger and truer”. The seeds for hatred and warfare would then
have been sown truly and well.
Confusion worse confounded
Religious and temporal leaders have on occasion tried to bring about
peace in the affairs of the tribes, not so much by abandoning the old rules as
by interpreting the old rules in a new light. These efforts have only ended in
creating new religions or creeds without ever liquidating the old religion
sought to be reformed. These subdivisions and multiplications of religion
have made confusion worse confounded in the mater of establishing any truth
but have definitely succeeded in solidifying certain creedal practices and
rituals as peculiar to each group, and these alone differentiate and divide the
people. The essentials of early religious social conduct would not only have
vanished into oblivion, but would have been metamorphosed into something
opposed to the original principles, in as much as the rules have been changed
and adapted to serve the selfish and exclusive purposes of the privileged
classes. This is actually what we witness to-day in almost all religions. The
mass of the people are misled, misguided and deceived to serve and slave for
the benefit of a lazy priestly class, and arrogant aristocracy, or a supine
plutocracy.
Murder and misery by religion
The evil effects of religion are apparent to all those who wish to see. In
the first place man’s intellect gets very badly influenced. The bigot, who pins
his faith in his own religion and his own god, fails either to grant a similar
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 333

status to another religion or to discredit his god for having allowed the other
religion or religions to come into being.
Nobody seems to ask whether god will create different religions only to
make them fight each other and create bloodshed, murder and misery in the
grand design. This simple truth does not even reach the subtle brains of the
great Acharyas or prophets. Instead, each one struts about as the most correct
and truest intermediary of god on earth, born for the set purpose of leading
man to godhead. How far religion has despoiled men’s minds by the above
process can be gauged by the religious wars and fights, that fill man’s history
on earth.
Secondly religion has divided man from man instead of uniting all
mankind in one fold. Thirdly, religion is primarily interested in making the
faithful conform to certain outward forms or peculiar dress, and not stressing
correct conduct or culture. Fourthly, there is no scope whatsoever for a
rational approach to questions of religion, for every religion insists on blind
belief without question some propositions and tenets albeit unacceptable to
conscience or intellect. Nor is it permissible for the faithful to believe a part
and doubt or disbelieve the rest. Fifthly, religion creates as set of go-
betweens or brokers between god and man and makes the practices and
interpretations of these brokers or priests authoritative and far superior to the
commonsense and practical experience of the laymen. Lastly, religion
prescribes salvation in proportion to the money spent on the priests and the
temples, however heinous the sins of the man may be. This complacent
solution helps man to amass wealth by atrocious means and live later in lazy
luxury unconscionably built on the sweat and toil of the common man.
Furthermore religion makes men cowards in life. Truth, freedom, and
self-respect are lost to the religionist. Superstition reigns supreme. The
Saivite devotee concludes that all his sins will be washed away, if only he
smears a little ash on his body. Scoundrels and humbugs pass as pious
specimens of humanity by painting some religious mark prominently on their
foreheads. Indeed these marks have come to cover hypocrisy,
blackmarketing, deceit and cunning. An ardent Vaishnavite proclaims that if
the name of Rama is once uttered, all sins will evaporate, since Rama is the
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 334

only god to give salvation. Even so the pious Christian believes that Jesus
alone can lead men to heaven, and that no other god can even offer any
warmth. Like wise the Muslim believes that every word in the Koran is god’s
own word and that not a line in it could be changed. If such is the attitude of
each religion, one wonders where the truth is to be found and how peace can
be secured.
8. The Hoax About Gods“Incarnation of Vishnu” –
“Incarnated gods of Vishnu”
“Avatars of Vishnu”.
These are the biggest hoaxes of the Vishnavite Brahmanic religion. This
is about the same as the Brahmin demand for protecting and propagating the
dead Sanskrit as a divine language.
If god is defined as a power that creates, protects and destroys the world,
as a power that has no beginning and no end, as a power that cannot be seen,
heard or touched, as a power that is found everywhere, as a power that has no
name, shape or character, and as a power that stands for truth, beauty, love
and equality, there is nothing to object to in it. There is no need for anybody
to bother about the existence or non-existence of such a power. This article is
not written to deny the existence of such a god.
Traditional ritual or accepted truth?
Some religions have laboured hard and long to create in the minds of the
people the truth about the existence of such a god.
However, it is very essential to know in what way the people, in
particular, the great Dravidian people – have been told about god, and what
they have begun to believe in, and whether it is correct or not. It is about time
that the common people come to know about it.
Exploits and character of principal gods
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 335

To day Hindu gods are Siva, his wife, their children and the paraphernalia
attached to all these.
Next come Vishnu, his wife, their children, the avatars of Vishnu, their
wives and children and all the paraphernalia attached thereto.
Third in the list are Brahma, his wife and their children and the
paraphernalia attached to them.
Besides these principal gods, there are the others, Indra, Varuna, Agni,
Vayu, Surya, Chandra, some selected animals, a few birds a few mountains
and some rivers.
Let us say something in general about all these Hindu gods and then
discuss in some detail the exploits and character of the principal gods. Let us
also take note of the researches of some Western and Indian scholars on the
subject for a better understanding of Hinduism
Gods of bad character and obscene habits.
In trying to understand the nature of these gods, it is necessary to know
how these gods originated, who created them, how they have been copied by
others giving them different names and introduced in other countries.
Professor Calvin has said that the Hindus professing the Aryan religion
have more bad and indecent practices than good and decent practices based
on religion. Sir Williams Jones, who first translated and published the Manu
Code in English, has said that the Manu Dharma Sastra is an unjust and
arbitrary code for human conduct. That the gods of the Hindus are in general
possessed of bad character and obscene habits is the opinion of many learned
scholars, and they conclude that the situation cannot be different where
idolatry of the worst type prevails.
Copies of foreign gods
The religious history of many countries discloses the fact that what are
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 336

regarded as the Hindu religious gods are not peculiar or exclusive to India.
The Hindu gods are seen to be in part “copies” of foreign gods. For instance,
the Linga worshipped by the Hindus as god Siva, is no other than the Phallus
of the ancient Greeks and Priapus of the ancient Egyptians. The goddess Kali
was the goddess Diana of the Greeks. Who copied form whom may be points
for controversy. Either they created different gods from the same idea or one
copied from the other. At any rate, it is clear that some of the gods of the
Hindus with certain attributes are not exclusive to India.
Origin of idol worship
Stories about the Hindu gods have different versions. Some contradict one
another. There is one school of thought, which says that India got her religion
and the gods from the Egyptians and another which says the opposite. There
is yet another school, which believes that it was Persia, which fathered the
religions of both ancient India and Egypt. Chaldaea it is said, first practiced
the worship of the Sun, and it later spread to Persia and India. The other
personal gods appear to have followed the sun-god. Taking advantage of the
ignorance and savage condition of the people, the priests have gone on
inventing a god for every purpose in order to maintain their own power and
authority over the people. It is said that the idolatry of Chaldaea developed in
Persia and that it received further impetus in Egypt and India. Whatever be
the origins of idolatry, the fact remains that the Hindus are to-day the greatest
idolators of the world.
Idolatry coiled around mythologies
The number of gods in Hinduism is countless and is still growing. Major
Moor has said rightly that Hinduism is full of idolatry coiled (wound) a round
the Puranas (mythologoes). The sciences, fine arts, literature, painting,
sculpture, customs and habits of the Hindus have close connection customs
with their puranas, adds Major Moor.
The Hindus have fantastic number of years in an Era or Yuga. The Satya
Yuga is supposed to have lasted 17,28,000 years. The Thretha Yuga that
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 337

followed the Satya held sway for 12.96.000 years, the third of Dwapara Yuga
continued for 8,64,000 Years. The last and present Kaliyuga has to run for
4,32,000 Years. These ages are all beyond common sense and known facts
about human history. There is yet another Yuga mentioned in the Puranas,
called Devayuga or Mahayuga, Which lasted for 39, 67, 20, 000 Years. These
myths about yugas have been invented to deceive and dumbfound the people
about the ageless antiquity of the Hindu religion and its Puranas. The Hindu
deities take different names in different parts of India and are beyond count.
Concoctions to attract attention
Nobody has known or seen this god; but he is believed to have created the
world. Prof. Eraskine has said in the matter of Hindu gods that the Brahmin
priests were aware that they were myths, but kept the truth to themselves and
foisted the gods in human form on the people to sustain ritualism and their
own privileged survival. Priesthood, superstition, and obscurantism took deep
roots in India because of idolatry. Idolatry was not confined to mere human
forms and animals. Those forms were also combined. Human bodies were
given animal heads. The satyr worship was prevalent in all the old religions
of Greece and Rome, Babylon and Egypt. It was obviously easy for the
priests to attract the attention and wonder of the people through such
concoctions. Everything big and great was made divine-the sun, the moon,
and the stars, mountains and rivers. Hence it was that the god that could not
be seen or realised, was found in all these wonderful objects in nature and in
the images the priests made for worship. The real god got covered up and
hidden in these images. It soon became impossible for man to think of god or
of all-powerful force independent of the idols. Huge temples were built for
the unseen Brahma, as the priests put it. While there may have been some
truth about god that was invisible and unknown in the religious literature of
the ancients, the people were given make-believes and fantasies and idols
with legends of the impossible.
On the one hand, the Vedas were said to assert the oneness of god; and on
the other hand, the people were given gods in thousands. The numerous
temples built for the gods and the feasts periodically celebrated for them gave
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 338

ample work and profit for the Brahmin priests. The people also seem to have
got a kick out of this religious pageantry.
The exploits of some of the gods like Siva and Durga were gruesome and
horrid. Force, sword and blood were their means to subdue their enemies. In
the Koorma Purana, god Siva himself is said to have ordered idol worship.
Mother marrying her own sons
The great god Brahma is stated to have created the world. As to how the
creation was done, there are several versions and no two stories agree. One
story is that Parabrahma created the female deity Bhavani. (The philosophic
explanation given of Bhavani is that it means energy in nature.) This Bhavani
gave birth to three sons, Brahma, Vishnu and Siva. The mother Bhavani later
changed herself into three young girls and married the three sons. In other
words the mother became the wife of the sons.
Egg burst into 14 pieces
Another legend about creation is that the natural energies were enclosed
in an egg, which burst into fourteen pieces to make the seven upper and seven
lower worlds. Later the god appeared on the Meru mountain and gave the
works of creation to Brahma, protection to Vishnu and destruction to Siva.
A third tale is that when the first world was destroyed, Vishnu was found
resting on the great serpent Anandan. A lotus appeared from his navel and
from the lotus came out Brahma to create the world and an agent to destroy
that world in the person of Siva. Thereafter Brahma created the human race.
In creating the human race, the great god practiced discrimination. He created
the Brahmins from his head, the Kshatriyas from his shoulders, the Vaisyas
from his thighs, and the Sudras from his feet. It must be noted that a male god
gave birth to the human kind. The births being extraordinary, the sex of the
creator obviously does not matter.
The story of the Greek god Saturn is similar to that of Brahma. This
Brahma has four red heads on a single neck. To start with, Brahma had five
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 339

heads, but had to lose one head at the hands of the irate Siva, since he refused
to accept Siva as a superior god. Another story is that both Brahma and Sivan
had five heads each, which caused Siva’s wife to get confused several times.
To save the situation, Sivan deprived Brahma of one of his heads. The
vehicle for Brahma is variously stated to be a duck or a swan. It would appear
that Vishnu and Siva joined hands to degrade Brahma and destroy his
temples.
Brahma with goat’s head
aksha is a reincarnation (an avatar) of Brahma. His daughter Sakthi
became Siva’s wife Parvathi. Sakthis’s son Veerabhadran was born not to his
mother but to his father Siva alone from his hairlocks. For having slighted his
father Sivan and caused the death of his mother in a fire, Veerabhadra got
angry and took revenge on Daksha by cutting off his head; but at the request
of the Devas, Daksha, who was no other than Brahma, was restored to life.
But the several heads of Daksha had got burnt in the fire. Hence a goat’s head
was fixed to him. And this Brahma is till supposed to be moving about with a
goat’s head.
Krishna with every woman
Viswakarma was the great carpenter-god. He is variously described as the
hand of god and son of Brahma. He is further said to be a white man with
three eyes.
Narada was the son of Brahma and Saraswati. His job was to proclaim
and convey god’s orders. He is said to have invented the veena. He had no
wife or concubine. He is said to have once asked Krishna to give him one of
numerous women he had. Krishna immediately permitted him to take any
woman who was alone; but to his dismay, Narada found Krishna in every
house that he entered. Disappointed he returned to his Brahmacharya
(Bachelorhood).
60,000 children to barren queen
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 340

Brigu was a great sage (rishi) and was the son of Brahma. A controversy
arose as to which of the Trinity was the greatest; all the three, Brahma,
Vishnu, and Siva, referred the matter to Brigu who adopted a queer method
for testing the gods. He subjected Brahma and Siva to violent abuse and
found them getting angry. Next he went to test Vishnu, but finding him
asleep beside his wife Laxmi, he kicked him on his chest waking up. Vishnu
did not get angry but asked if Brigu had hurt his leg. He did more. He
caressed the leg that kicked him. More absurd stories had been written about
Brigu’s exploits. One such is his assistance to enable the barren queen of
King Sagara to give birth to 60,000 (Sixty thousand) children. It is not known
if the queen is still in the process of producing children!
Saraswati the Indian Minerva
Brahma’s son Manu became the father of seven sages (rishis), who it is
said, married six women. What the arrangement was between seven men and
six women has not been made clear in the Purana (Mythology). Obviously
supernatural and unnatural things relating to gods and sages (rishis) do not
require any explanation.
Goddess Saraswati is variously described as Braham’s daughter and one
of the wives of Vishnu, or as Brahma’s wife. In either case the relationship
accords with incest. However, the Hindus worship Saraswati as the goddess
of learning. Hindus are made to believe that education is obtainable only by
the grace of Saraswati. It is said that to obtain condonation for uttering false
hood, this goddess should be propitiated. If the response is to be good,
worship must be often repeated. It looks as if Hindus are prone to untruth. In
fact Prof. Charles Colman has commented on the Hindu habit of uttering
falsehoods. Saraswati is compared with Minerva, the goddess of learning of
the Greeks and Romans.
Confined to museums
All these fables lead us on to the similarity between the Western pagan
gods and those of the Hindus. While the Westerners long ago confined these
gods to the museum and mythological literature, the Hindus still hug them. A
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 341

list is given below to show that the sources for the gods and goddesses,
assuming that one did not copy from the other, have been the same for the
Greco-Romans and the Hindus.
Siva and Indra Jupiter
Brahma Saturn
Yama Minas
Varuna Neptune
Surya Sol
Chandra Lunus
Vayu Eeyovas
Viswakarma Vulcan
Ashwins Castor and Pollux
Ganesa Janus
Vrajanti or Vaithrani Sticksnadhi
Kubera Pluto
Krishna Apollo
Narada Mercury
Rama Bacchus
Kanda Mars
urga Juno
Saraswati Minerva
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 342

Ramba Venus
Usha Aurora
Saga Vesta
Brinivi Saiballi
Sree Iris
Let us next proceed to examine the character of some of the lesser deities
of the Aryans.
Varuna and Greek oranus
The Greeks worshipped the sky in the form of a wild bull and called it
Dias. In Greek “oranus”means the sky. It is this oranus that the Aryans called
Varuna. This Varuna is described as living in a golden mansion high up in the
sky. This mansion is said to contain one thousand gateways and rooms.
Varuna wears brilliant shining apparel. He has spies in his service. After
having praised him this much, the Rig-Veda speaks ill of his birth and tribe.
He has been slighted as an Asura of Dravidian race who rules with the aid of
vanishing tricks. These tricks are given two meanings by the Sanskritists of
Aryan race.
Caste differentiation of Aryans
God’s illusory tricks or maya-leela take the praiseworthy name of noble
or divine play of the God (Thiruvilaiyadal). If the Asuras of Dravidian race
do illusory tricks, they are said to result in evil for mankind. Even in word-
meanings, race and caste differentiation is emphasised by the Aryans.
By his illusory tricks, Varuna causes the Sun’s revolution in Sky. The Sun
is described as Varuns’s eyes. Above all Varuna is the rain god and lord of
the seas and rivers. People in general have looked upon the sky as the symbol
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 343

of Varuna, but Varuna has these attributes attached to him in the ancient
texts.
VISHNU: In the Rig Veda, Vishnu has been treated as a minor deity. He
has been described as one who roams about the world i.e. in all the three
worlds of the earth, heaven and akasa or space. The Vamana Avatara Purana
has this description as the basis for its story. It is also said that it was the Sun,
who represented as Vishnu.
Lover – Mother – Sister
The sky-god Varuna and his wife Athithi gave birth to the Sun - god.
Devotees (Bhaktas) obtain release if they worship this Athithi. The early
morning dawn has been made a goddess and named Usha, who is in love with
the sun. This Usha has a peculiar relation with the Sun. In the morning she is
said to love the Sun, but becomes his mother in the middle of the day and
later, at night, becomes his sister. Further a close relationship is shown
between Usha and the god Agni.
runkenness had been given divine status. Somadeva is the god of the
drunkards. Bacchus was the liquor-god of the Greco Romans.
The Aswinis
The Aswinis are two inseparable gods, known for their drunkenness. The
Rig veda describes them as carrying their liquor pots in their chariots both for
their own consumption and for supply to others. Their chariots would be
drawn by oxen or asses . Their sister is Usha, and hence their close
relationship with the Sun-god, which has been twisted to look fantastic. The
Sun is said to assume the form of a damsel to have sexual relations with the
twins. One other story says that the daughter of the Sun became the wife of
the two Aswinis, thus falsifying the former story in which the Sun takes the
form of a damsel to make love with the twins. Both versions are found in the
Rig Veda.
Surya is the daughter of the Sun. As the common wife of the Aswinis, she
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 344

is taken in the chariot wherever the gods go to administer medicine to their
clients, for the Aswinis are the physicians of the gods.
The dawn is personified by another goddess named Savithri. The Gayathri
japa (prayer) done in the mornings is to worship this Savithri and to ask for a
boon. Although there is this worship of a female deity, some of the slokas
(hymns) are said to be discourteous to women.
After describing the Devas (Heavenly Supermen) as free from disease,
old age or death,, we are told that the Aswinis are the physicians of the gods.
Where is the need for a doctor for Devas who are ever healthy, youthful and
living? There is another hoax connected with this. The Aswinis are praised to
the skies for their healing abilities; but it is said that nobody knows about
their healing methods or medicines. The Aswini also, it is deplored, did not
impart the secrets to anybody.
Here is another version of the Aswini story. It is said that the Aswinis are
still in the process of making love to Surya, who is continually declining their
advances. Every morning the Aswinis start making love and pursue the
fleeting Surya. Yet another story is that the Aswinis are pursuing Surya not to
marry her, but to get her married to Chandra.
There is a similar myth in the Greek legends. God Lettis has two sons
whose job is to save the daughter of the Sun or the Sun himself from getting
drowned in the sea.
The explanation of the scholars is that the Aswinis stand for the dawn and
the evening as also for the bright morning and evening star Venus high up in
sky. Prof. Weber thinks that the Hindus have called the two stars Castor and
Pollux, the Aswinis.
Indra
The principal god of the Vedic Aryans is Indra. More than a quarter of the
Rig Veds is devoted to describing his exploits and invoking his aid for the
success of the Aryans. The Puranas are full of legends about Indra. The
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 345

Aryans seem to have taken a particular delight in Indra’s love affairs. He is
more a man that any other god, and hence his adventures in promiscuity,
military valour and waywardness.
Indra, however, is not a special creation of the Indo-Aryans. In the Zend
Avesta of the Persian Aryans, Indra is depicted as a rakshasa (virulent brute)
given to heavy drinking of somapana (liquor). His drunkenness drove him to
more amorous adventures than is usual with the Aryan gods. Drunkards
cannot be expected to be otherwise.
The Vedic Aryans dubbed Indra as “somappa”, to indicate his special
taste for liquor. The Aryan pandits (Scholars) have maintained a controversy
about Indra’s parentage. Some Vedic hymns (slokas) assert that Indra was no
other than Varuna, the rain-god. Some other slokas would have him as the
son of Vishtari and the twin brother of Agni. This appears to be rather
inconsistent. Rain and fire do not go together; but inconsistencies do not
matter so far Hindu gods are concerned.
The legend about this rain-god is interesting. A mountain snake by name
Vritthran takes the clouds as prisoner. Indra using his vajrayudha (weapon)
attacks Vritthran and releases the clouds, thus causing rain. Aryan
superstition is evidenced in legends such as these. Thunder and rain preceded
by lightning were obviously responsible for this story. Either the Aryans did
not know the scientific facts about the causation of rain or they tried to fool
the lay people by inventing a divine legend to explain natural phenomena. To
this they added worship of Indra by installing homa-kundas (Fire-pits) and
sending up smoke as emissaries to the rain-god. The ritual of the homa-kunda
fire – worship results in bringing easy money for the crafty priesthood.
Indra was also worshipped as the Commander-in chief of the Aryan
hordes in the fight against the DRAVIDIANS called as Dasyus, the natives of
India. Many are the hymns (slokas) in the Vedas beseeching Indra to destroy
the Dasyus and seize their lands. Indra stands therefore pre-eminently as the
defender of the fair Aryans in their struggle with the dark-skinned native
Dasyus (Dravidians) for the mastery of India. Not stopping with the defeat
inflicted on the Dasyus, Indra is said to have finished Yasthri, his father
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 346

according to some other Purana. He is therefore one who, according to the
Ayan polity, has committed the sin of ‘pithru-hatthi’ (‘Murder of Father’).
Indra also attacked and destroyed Usha’s Chariot and obstructed Surya’s
horses, as though these are climaxes in a drunkard’s adventures. The truth
intended to be brought out is that the great Sun and his light and heat are
sometimes obstructed by the dark clouds and downpour of rain. This ordinary
feature is entwined in a legend of Indra to supplant the earlier legend about
Vritthran imprisoning the clouds in the high mountains.
There is no mention of thunder and rain in the Indra Vritthrausra story.
Water released by Indra runs out like a race horse, as per the Vedic sloka. A
horse running in air head downwards, appears to be the worst of imageries.
Vajrayudha is a weapon made out of a metal found on the earth. But the
weapon is seen to have been used by the devas (Super men) from heaven,
which is another inconsistency. The Aryans have put out another god of rain
under the name of Parjanya to make matters more confusing.
All these stories make confusion worse confounded and are thoroughly
opposed to reason.
A legend of old Russia is similar to that of Indra. The legend had its
origin in the snowy countries of North Russia and traveled south and on to
India with the Aryans.
Rudra
This is a god whose appearance is like that of a ghost or a mad monk. He
has heavy locks of hair and is black in colour. He is cruel, like a fearful wild
beast. He has been described as an aerial bear and a wild bison. He is
subjected to fits of anger and even trifles rouse his ire. The thunder weapon
thrown by him will kill the Aryans and their cattle. Hence that numerous
slokas (hymns) in the Vedas addressed to him to spare the Aryans. By
describing Rudra as the divine physician, who heals the sick inconsistency
has been incorporated in his character. The god who is quickly angered is
also the god who emits cold. His description first into a dark cloud to
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 347

describe which the Aryans must have created a legend.
Aryan fantasy does not stop with this. The white clouds are made into
cows. The Rudra of the dark cloud joins Prisini of the white cloud and gives
birth to 180 children, named Marudars, who, however number only 21
according to another version. Vayu has also been described as the father of
these Marudars. In other words, Prisini has two husbands, Vayu and Rudra.
The children are all of the same age, having been born at the same time. Yet
another Vedic legend says that the Marudars took birth without any
parentage. They were born by themselves. Legends seem to have changed
from time to time. Rain is generally preceded by frightening winds that raise
dust. They describe this as if the Aryans invented the Marudars. ‘Sanda-
marudam means hurricane and ‘mantha-marudam’ means breeze, and such
simple things must be woven into an imaginary story for the Aryans.
Agni
Agni is fire and it is the life-god of the Aryans. The word “Vediar”means
one who ignites a fire or one who takes the aid of fire. ‘Vedhu’ in Tamil
means heat. To give ‘Vedhu’means to give hot water or apply hot ash to the
body. The vedic priests made a companion of the fire-god. To communicate
their desires to the rain-god Indra, the Aryans used Agni (Fire). The smoke
shooting up form the homa gunda (fire-pit) was supposed to communicate
with the cloud.
Agnideva’s (Fire-God’s) physical appearance accords with the duties
ascribed to him. His back is white (the white, burnt-out ash). His hair on the
head spurts out like the flames of fire, and he eats not by the mouth but by his
tongue-to signify the flames that envelope any burning object. His food
consists of milk, butter and ghee which are the things that the priests waste in
the homa-gunda (fire-pit). Agnilike, all other gods, takes special delight in
hot drinks like soma-pana (liquor). The Vedic slokas are silent about the
destination of these drinks and foods, whether it is Agni’s (Fire’s) mouth or
the mouths of his human devotees. This god demands food and drink three
times a day – morning, mid-day and evening.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 348

Smoke screen antics
The rationalist would ask if the priests are the post-boxes for the Aryan
gods, seeing the gifts showered on the purohits (priests) at various
ceremonies. The priests have made themselves representatives of Agni (Fire),
who has been described as the mouthpiece of all the other gods. If everything
were asked to be poured down the throats of the priests, suspicion might be
aroused. Hence it is that something valuable is also asked to be consigned to
the fire. The homa-gunda (fire-pit) is also duly respected after it has
consumed special twigs, ghee, and grains, by scooping the white ash from the
homa pit and applying it to the forehead, chest and arms. Applying the ashes
is the climax of the sacrificial hoax. One does not know how the Hindu
priest’s fore-head and stomach happen to serve as the medium for the gifts of
the people made to Agnideva. (Fire-God). There, however, does not appear to
be any authority in the Vedas for this queer ash smearing of the priests and
the people.
Scientists are perhaps still struggling to find the mysteries behind smoke.
But the Vedas seem to have, settled it. Smoke is the pillar that supports the
sky. Agnideva (Fire-God) created this smoke pillar, and set it up to support
the sky to prevent it crashing down on the heads of the Aryans. If only the
modern scientists and engineers could obtain the secret of making pillars out
of smoke from our priests (purohits), they could straightaway dispense with
steel, concrete, and mortar as unnecessary aids to building structures. The
smoke pillars as fabricated by the Aryans will lead them on to the sky.
The mythical superstition is the easiest thing to make fools of others. The
Vedic Aryans seem to have succeeded in this effort to a very large extent.
Born daily and died daily
Agni-deva’s (Fire-God’s) birth is as queer as his character according to
the Vedas. In one place he is named the son of the “First God”. Another
would have him the child of the sky and the earth. The mystery of agni’s
(fire’s) birth puts to shame the story about the search for Indra’s father, He
was not born in the way children are born to men or in the way kids are born
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 349

to animals or even in the way chicks are born to birds. Do you know who the
father and the mother of Agni are? They are the two twigs in the hands of the
Aryan priests. Twigs are not of the modern priests, but the fire-igniting ones
of the ancients. This Agni is born every day and every time the purohits rub
one twig against the other, and grows quickly into a powerful being. But even
the fiercest fire dies down in a short time. This must then be Agni’s (Fire’s)
daily death. Agni therefore one who is born daily, does his work and dies
daily. The Vedic fire, centered in the homa-gunda (flame-pit) has been
ennobled by such fantasies as these. Agni has another name, Doomakethu,
one who brings evil, the star that foretells evil. Hence it is that Agni is a
destructive agent. Agni is also the offspring of might. The Vedic slokas
further state that ten women help in his birth, the ten being no other than the
ten fingers that light the fire with the sticks.
Holy trinity but ill-omen
Agni (Fire) is a trinity for the Aryans. He is a god of three characters. He
has three heads, three bodies, and three brilliance’s. The three names, the
three vibuthi streaks, the principle of waving the holy light thrice to gods, and
of throwing water thrice, etc., seem to have had their origin in the three
attributes of Agni-deva. Yet we have a bad name attached to the number
three. Anything undertaken by three persons is considered a bad omen. There
are people who dislike the very number three. The great Aryan gods make
trinity, and the characters given to each of them are three, and these great
gods are represented on Hindu foreheads by three lines, horizontal or vertical;
yet it is strange that the superstition about the holy three has all along
persisted.
Agni is also described as twice-born by the so-called twice-born priests. It
is to be noted that the Brahmins and others think they are born once to their
mothers and a second time when they don the corss-thread. This barbaric
superstition has been carried over to their god Agni, who has been given one
more job in addition to his others, namely priesthood. Agni has been made a
Brahmin and the chief priest of the devas (Heavenly Supermen).
It has to be remembered that the ancient practices of burning fire and
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 350

offering sacrifices are not the monopoly of the Sanskritic Brahmins any more
than they are their exclusive inventions. The ancient Greeks and Romans had
such practices. The only difference is that while the West gave up those
practices as barbaric and primitive, the Hindus still hold on to them to prove
their static culture and irrational practices and beliefs.
No place for Brahama in Veda
Brahama takes the first place in Brahamanism, the secret being that the
Brahmins thereby sought to make themselves important. The sound of the
same Brahama or Brahman was made to sound the same as the caste name
Brahmin. This similarity in sound helped to enable the Brahmins pass as the
representatives of the Brahaman on earth.
Prajapathi is another god who has been raised to a high level, though the
stories about this god are nauseating and disgusting. Prajapathi is the god
who created the world, and in some Puranas (Mythologies) has been assigned
the fourth place in the Aryan pantheon. The credit for the creation of all the
three worlds has been given to him. But the legends do not agree in their
details.
In order to raise themselves in the estimation of the people as the first
men and as the representatives of Brahama, the Brahmins have cleverly
interpolated new ideas into the puranas from time to time. The aim has
always been two-fold-one was to establish the principle of the division of
society on a hierarchic caste basis, and the other was to make themselves the
first among the castes. The efforts in these directions were the greatest, when
the whole caste system seemed to collapse under the impact of Buddhism. It
was for this reason that the god Brahma was created and made the first
among the gods. In the later Vedic literature there is little or nothing about
this Brahama.
Pageantry and public attraction
Brahma was made important during the time of Manu. This was done to
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 351

make Brahama responsible for the nefarious Brahmanic caste system as well
as the creation of the world from his body. The god, who created the world
from his own body also created the four castes form his body, thus lending to
the system the sanction of divinity and religion.
It has been said that Brahma himself was born from a golden egg. But the
fact remains that Brahma has ceased to be the object of worship or respect.
As people progressed, experience and freethinking enabled them to believe
less in the antics of the priests. Further, the spirit of independence in groups
of people led to the selection of new gods for special worship. The Aryan
modes of thought must also have lost their pristine hold on the people.
Numerous gods were created in opposition to the Vedic gods. In reply, the
Hindu priests organised ritualism, expanded the manthras or hymns, and
raised temples to give some pageantry and public attraction to Brahmanism.
Siva and Vishnu became Aryan gods long after the Vedic gods.
Siva is a god who is not found in the Vedas. The word ‘Siva’simply
means one who is full of love or one who is pure. In the Mahabharata epic,
Agni has been described as god Siva.
Even in the Vishnu cult, one finds a difference between the Vedic Vishnu
and the later Vishnu. Even this has been done to enhance the prestige of the
Brahmin caste. Vishnu is said to have incarnated ten times on earth. But the
period in history of these incarnations has never been determined. It is,
however, clear that all these Avatar stories have been for the benefit of
Brahminism. It was to destroy the Dravidian Kings who resisted the spread of
Brahminism, that the Avatar (incarnation) stories were written. In every
Avatar, the principal purpose is to destroy a “cruel” ruler and save the people
to serve Brahmins.
Sanskrit learning prohibited for others
The Mahabharata and the Ramayan are the two big epics elaborated out of
a bare outline of historical facts to establish the supremacy of Brahmanism. It
is clear that long before the suppression or defeat of the Indian rulers, some
stories about Rama and Krishna were current in India. In order to establish
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 352

Brahmanism, the Aryan poets imported Brahmanic ideas into the old stories
and made incarnations (avatars) of Rama and Krishna.
As the Vedas fell in the estimation of the people or were found to be too
abstruse for popular absorption the Hindu priests invented ritualism and in
making it elaborate, made themselves indispensable for its correct
performance. In order to monopolise the profession of priests, it was decreed
that none other than Brahmins should learn Sanskrit. The exclusive privilege
of learning, reciting, and even hearing Sanskrit reserved to the Brahmins was
buttressed by severe penalties on all others, who wished to or attempted to
learn the language. One more clever trick that the ancient Brahmins
performed was to adopt all the native gods as their own and thereafter it was
easy to make themselves priests of those gods. Brahmin diplomacy was
clever enough not to make serious inroads into other people’s religion or
gods. They were satisfied so long as they were recognised as the superior
caste and their gods as the first.
Hell and heaven invented by Brahmin priests
To give sanctity to the rituals, the Brahmin priests in time invented stories
about hell and heaven. While dividing the people in a graded manner as
superior and inferior, it was laid down that one in the lower caste could
ascend to the higher only in the next birth by performing faithfully and
reverently the duties or Dharma of the caste in this birth. In order to compel
all to seek the service of the priests, ancestor - worship was made religiously
obligatory on the people. This was not only a source of profit for the priests,
but also an opportunity to assert their superiority over all others. Even the
death-god Yama was created to strike fear into the minds of the people and
make them run after the priests for religious succour. It is stated in the Vedas
that the first man, who died on the earth became Yama Dharama Raja.
Penance is prescribed to attain salvation or Moksha. But the extreme
severity of penance put the institution beyond the reach of all men. The feats
of penance found in the stories were all performed in the fertile imaginations
of the Rishi-poets of role. In order to hide the falsity about penance, the Piety
(Bhakti) cult was organised in later ages.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 353

Sankarachraya and caste rigidity
In order to oppose the grand hoax of Brahminism, Meemamsam and
Kapilam appeared in India in the good old days. Kapilam (a rational
philosophy of Tamil poet KABILAR) exposed the sinister secrets and ulterior
motives of Brahminsm and laid a snare for the Brahminic belief in god itself.
Buddhism on the other hand appeared to totally denounce Brahminsm.
Bhuddha succeeded in weaning the people away form the false cults of the
Brahmins and specially their wicked creation of hell and heaven. In order to
lessen the force of Buddhism in India, the Brahmins adopted new methods.
Krishna’s story, loaded with love pranks, was extensively propagated to
attract the people and by-pass Buddhism. Caste differences were intensified,
and Brahmins took to pious vegetarianism to appear equal to if not superior
to the Buddhist monks. Sankarachrya stood up to put life into the waning
power of Brahminism. Saivite and Vaishnavite mutts were started to compete
with the Buddhist monasteries.
Caste rigidity was firmly established only after the Sankaracharyas
appeared; but unfortunately Hindus are yet to realise that the system is a
disgrace and a shame to the Dravidian people, with the result that the
Brahmins are left to benefit and enjoy their insularity and superiority. Things
are slowly changing, and people in the towns, though not in the villages, have
dropped their old veneration for the Brahmins, though they continue to be
used for some religious and social purpose as hired servants.
The points made out above may be found corroborated in greater detail in
the Encyclopedia Britannica.
The speciality of Vishnu’s incarnations is to kill the kings of the land,
seize their lands, make gifts of them to the Brahmins, and bring the land
under Brahminic caste rule. Parasurama was born to kill all the Kshatriyas
who opposed the Brahmins, and distribute their territories amongst the
Brahmins. But, later, the story goes that Parasurama in his old age asked for
some little land to be given to him. The Brahmins refused. There upon
Parasurama decided to take his revenge and laid his case before god Varuna,
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 354

who graciously granted his request not to rain on the Brahmin-ruled lands. It
was also resolved that the ocean should cover up the lands as far as
Parasurama shot his arrow. Parasurama got his arrow and bow into trim the
previous night, and on the morning when he shot the arrow, it reached the
present southern border of Kerala, i.e. Kanyakumari. The ocean rose and
enveloped the land up to Kanyakumari. This is the Purana (Mythology) about
Parasurama as found by Prof. Calvin.
Who built the bridge across the sea?
Another silly purana detailed by Calvin is about Kumbakarna in the
Ramayana. When he was a crawling child, Kumbakarna would stretch his
hand and eat up everything that he could catch. On one occasion the hand
reached the harem of god Indira and seized 5,000 of his women. At another
try 7,000 wives of sages and thousands of Brahmins, cows etc. were caught
and swallowed.
The ‘Sethu’or bridge between Ceylon (Sri Lanka) and India is said in the
Ramayana, to have been built by Hanuman and his army. There is however
some historical evidence for the construction of the bridge, which is, that the
king of the Maravas of Tamil Dravidian race after his defeat at the hands of
the Pandya king of Madurai made his escape to Ceylon by building the Sethu
bridge. This is confirmed by the researches of Calvin.
Sir William Jones said that it was the practice of the Brahmins to declare
all good things of the earth, like the arts, literature, etc. to have come from
heaven, to be the word of god or a boon from the gods.
Ramayana has Greek origin
The Iroqueis tribe of American Indians have a legend very much like the
Koorma Avatar of the Vaishnavites. Once there were six men in the sky-
world. There were no women, but to generate their species they searched for
a woman. Learning that there was a girl in Deva-loka (Heaven) they decided
to send one man there. As he could not fly such a long distance, they sought
the help of an eagle, which easily took the man to heaven. The girl there was
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 355

enticed, but the incident invited the wrath of the god, who hurled both the
man and the celestial girl down to the earth. A turtle that saw the falling
couple hastened to support them. The fishes in the sea busied themselves in
piling mud around the turtle, which later became the earth. The offspring of
the woman became the men of the earth. This story is another of Calvin’s
discoveries.
Calvin found a sculpture portraying the Varaha or pig incarnation. The
sculpture has the figures of Vishnu and Laxmi. The goddess has four heads,
of which one is that of a pig. All her eight hands hold warlike weapons.
Around the figure of Laxmi are many pigs each holding an arrow.
Sir William Jones believes that the Ramayana is no more than an
elaboration of the Greek invasion of India under Panchurang.
9. Festivals and superstition
The purpose of a feast is for a large number of people to meet, exchange
views, and enjoys themselves. As people of differing views meet, there are
room and scope for people to air them.
Meaningless rituals
The pity about our public festivals is that they contain meaningless rituals
in remembrance of fantastic imaginary legends. These festivals were
organised centuries ago by somebody for some reason to benefit some group.
And definitely not for the advancement or enlightenment of our Dravidian
people. For instance, almost all of our festivals seem to have been invented
for the purpose of feeding and enriching the Brahmin priests. The ritualsim of
the festivals has continued from time immemorial in exactly the same manner
without any change, regardless of the changes that have taken place in the
social and political world. There appears to be no correlation whatever
between the progress of culture and the ritualism of the festivals. The only
change appears to be in lighting arrangements. Instead of oil lamps or
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 356

burning torches, we have now gas lights or electric lights. Nobody seems to
be bothered as to whether participation in festivals of this kind is of any use
to the people. Gatherings such as these should at least be utillised by our
intellectuals to educate the people of their crude ideas and to improve their
general knowledge of the world.
Festivals in the West
I have taken some pains to see how festivals are organised in Western
countries. I have also witnessed some festivals while on tour in the West.
Their festivals will invariably contain something to improve the people’s
knowledge, some exhibition to kindle the progressive tendencies of the
people will be found there. No such thing is found in our country of India.
There will be nothing to stimulate the intellect. Festivals are performed there
at the cost of lakhs of rupees to carry and idolatrous procession through the
streets, with the sole purpose of keeping the people enveloped in ignorance,
credulity and piety.
In the West, the festivals though conducted for the same role religious
purposes have largely been converted into exhibition or the education of the
people. The latest advancement made in agriculture and industry will be
exhibited and explained to the people. Delicate ingenious machinery obtained
form different lands will find a place in the exhibition. Small fine art galleries
will also be there to attract the attention of the visitors. The participant in the
festivals feels as though he is passing through a university. He begins to
know in general what a university student will learn in detail. As the
exhibition are meant for the education and progressive thinking of the people,
industrialists, educationists, and scientists are seen to take a great interest in
them. The interest taken by government in such exhibition is not small.
Manufacturers take the trouble and interest to sell their wares at a bare profit
in order to encourage the people to adopt the latest labour-minimum saving
and comfort-giving devices in their household work.
What do Indian festivals give?
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 357

Indian festivals are devoid of such exhibitions. Beyond the same old
bazaar lines, the same old street fun, and the procession of the idols, there is
nothing to kindle our imagination or improve our lives. When a person
returning from a festival is asked what was special in it, he would repeat the
same old story of big crowds, grand decoration of the idols, the stampede of
the mad rush, and perhaps the new set of buglers who were paid the highest
this year. He will say nothing about the world that is progressing elsewhere.
Yet we have devotees who take pride in their annual visits to Tirupati for the
Purattasi Saturday or to Tiruvannamalai for the Kartigai Deepam. After
expending a few hundred rupees on railway or bus travel, on temple priests
and in unhealthy hotel, the villager returns home with his family poorer in
money and poorer in mind, if he does not contract some disease and die on
the way.
Man and beast
Man endowed with the six senses is not supposed to do the same thing
over again as other beings with lesser senses. Man must behave differently
form the animal. He must show progress in word, thought, and deed to justify
his existence. Men who do not change are no better than animals, which do
nothing beyond living and procreating.
Why do we show no progress in comparison with the Western people?
Every Year they bring out, for instance, new models of motor cars, which is
because research is always under way striving for progress in design, comfort
and cost. In former days manufacturers used to change the models once in
five years. In recent years they effect improvements every year and in some
cases twice a year. This is in accordance with man’s progressive evolution.
On the political side we are not so bad. The ideal that the Congress had in
1885 is not what it has now. It has changed its ideal to suit changing political
conditions. The first Congress paid allegiance to the Emperor of Britain and
prayed for his long life. Later it passed resolutions praying for a share in the
administration and for a share in high appointments to Indians. I would not
say that the Congressmen of those days were actuated by slave mentality.
They did what they could in those days, but step by step they changed their
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 358

aims. When Indians got a share in jobs, the demand for equality in
remuneration was raised, and later still the recruitment of Englishmen for the
Indian services was objected to. Finally the congress asked for self-rule. Only
to modify it still later to Complete Independence. This is progress in the
political field.
Progress or growth connotes improvement. As civilisation advances there
is a steady increase in man’s needs. Research and rational thinking help us to
drop unwanted and obsolete things and leap towards higher materials of
comfort. The greater the effort for material progress, the higher is the
standard of living. Higher standards in living mean less physical labour and
more comfort and leisure. The Western nations have progressed this way.
Compared to their standards, India is extremely backward. In some respects
we are almost living like animals without showing any signs of improvement.
Are we sinners? I do not think so. Our leaders, and philosophers have not
thought on the right lines. They simply left our improvement to god, karma,
fate, etc. It is not that we are incapable of rational thinking; it is that the
opportunities given to us were utilised to multiply superstitions and exploit
the innocent people. The festival gatherings, marriage groups, and society
meetings have all been only so much fun for us and not occasions for self or
rational improvement.
Blind obedience
The intellect in India was never allowed to question the past or doubt the
present or plan for the future. Blind obedience to tradition and blissful
resignation to karma has been the order of the day. In matters of god,
religion, ritual, religious regulations (sastras), we were not allowed to effect
the slightest change. Our people were asked to childishly accept as true the
silly and fantastic Puranas (Mythology) relating to our wonderful gods. The
threat of hell and eternal perdition was held over anybody who questioned the
truth of any line in the Vedas, Sastras, and Puranas. The horrid threat of being
born as insects or grass in the next birth was also there. These ideas are still
present in the minds of our people. We have only to see how our magicians
and priests still trade on spirits, ghosts, and dead souls. There are people who
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 359

pray “God, save me from hell. I am prepared to drink cow’s urine and eat its
dung, if only my misery is driven away”.
If there were a few freethinkers in our land, who questioned our Sastras
and Puranas, they were immediately branded as atheists and the wrath of the
people was turned on them. Hence it is that we are where several centuries
ago with little hope for the future.
Think it over
God and religion interfere in every bit of our life without limit. Though
we have not tried to invent and make new things that improve our daily living
conditions we have not hesitated to adopt Western gadgets. Indeed we have
not failed to carry Western inventions to our gods. Electric lights and fans
today comfort our stone and metal gods. Nobody has bothered to see, if
electricity is consistent with our ancient idolatry still armed with spears and
maces. Without much thought about god and religion, we have, however,
quickly taken to Western conveniences. Whether faith in god permits railway
travel to Benares and Rameswaram against the traditional locomotion in carts
or by foot does not hinder our present day devotees. We do not make things
that improve man’s lot on earth, but do not hesitate to use Western inventions
for ourselves or our gods. Take the electric light as an example. Think of the
history behind its invention. Kerosene light and gas light, little realising that
our innumberable gods, Rishis (Sages), Mahatmas (Supreme Souls), heroes
(Veeras and Suras) were incapable of inventing one little thing or even
bestowing on any devotee the ability to do such things. The inconsistency in
our thinking and way of life must therefore be apparent to those who wish to
see.
Should there be caste?
The infamous ‘Varnasrama’ (Casteism system) dharma is still extant in
India. The people, who were called Sudras (Sons of prostitutes) 2000 years
ago still continue to be called such. Likewise the people, who were Brahmins
2000 years ago are still Brahmins. People born untouchable centuries ago are
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 360

still in the same unfortunate condition. Colour, habits, likes and dislikes,
caste rules and principles have all changed, but the basis of casteism still
continues to thrive on the basis of birth. How is this just? Should the term
Sudra, which means progeny of the concubine or prostitute, still continue in
this 20th century? Should we still be frightened of the false Hindu
codifications (Sastras) and useless traditions? Why not our people divest
themselves of the subjucation imposed on the basis of birth? How are we to
be men in the full sense of the word ‘Sudras’?
Can this be tolerated?
The cause of our subjucation is Hindu religion and its supporting gods,
Doctrines and Mythology that we had accepted. If these cannot be removed
they must at least be amended to suit our modern democratic conditions. We
should no longer be afraid of the imaginary hell. People should have the guts
to ask why this god had made the toiling worker miserable, while the lazy
rich who do not so much bend their bodies should lead lives of ease. Can a
religion that calls the hard-working tiller a low caste Sudra and the lazy
longer a high caste Vaisya or Brahmin, be tolerated?
God is in flight
The days of superstition are numbered. People are no longer panicky
about god and religion. In many foreign countries god is in flight, if not
already gone. People who doubt god or expel god, are only those who use
their intellect. Such people have not been punished by god. They have not
lost their eyesight nor have they become deaf. The terrors held out for the
agnostic and the atheist have been proved to be false cries. There is rain,
sunshine, prosperity and plenty in atheist Russia and China.
More gods than people!
Festivals such as Pongal in Tamil Nadu, the harvest feast, must be utilised
for kindling rationalist thought. Nobody can say that the outcast or low caste
condition of our people in the land of their birth is because of want of faith in
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 361

god or religion. India has never been wanting in gods. There are plenty of
them. They are said to exceed the population of India itself. The worship of
god in all faith and sincerity has also been full and satisfactory. Why then are
we in the present miserable low condition?
What do we do when our town is struck by cholera or plague? The
authorities no longer call upon the people to propitiate the deities like
Mariamma and Muneeswaran. They go out instead to close down the stinking
water pools, clean up the drinking water system, and inoculate the people
against the disease. In the same way, people must realise that the cause of
their servility and misery is the Hindu religion. They must no longer
propitiate the same old gods that have proved to be deaf and blind and dumb,
but seek them out in every nook and corner and destroy them.
Why god is always silent?
If the pickpocket says that he could not help doing it because it is god’s
action and nothing moves without HIS sanction, do we accept his word and
let him go? Do we not hand him over to the police? Will any devotee leave
his box unlocked in the conviction that god will look after everything? Do we
not see every man exerting himself to find the means of his livelihood? Who
sits still in the hope of god putting food in his mouth? Therefore it is wrong
to expect god to take action to eradicate the diabolical caste system with all
its evils. It is the duty of the people to take action. God and his priests will
never come to their aid. God has always been silent, and the priest have used
his name to exploit and fool the people This must be told to the people to
urge them to throw off the shackles of religion.
Serve a notice on god
Why should there be Sudras meaning descendants of prsotitute or
concubines? Are the people who build the temples, pay for its maintenance,
feed the priests, wash and worship the idols, be called low caste Sudras? Are
the people who do nothing but wave lamps before the idols and fool the
people to be called high caste Brahmins? If god is responsible for these unjust
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 362

differences, is it not time to serve a notice on god asking him either to
publicly declare that there are no high and low persons before him or that he
is not responsible for the discrimination, and that if he does not make the
declaration within a stipulated time, steps would be taken to demolish the
temples?
If god is enclosed in the phallic stone, let him speak out. If he does not,
throw the stone on to the dung heap. Self-Respecters who speak the truth are
being subjected to persecution in order to preserve the old order – the vested
interests – interests – in the name of peace. Self-Respecters have to brave all
difficulties and go forward with their noble, democratic, rationalist mission.
Nautch girls for the pleasure of gods
If god can be anything, it can only by truth and wisdom. Everything said
and done in the name of god must be examined on this basis. There is no
sense in installing a piece of stone and calling it god and then getting it
married every year. Till recently these gods were given the pleasure of nautch
girls dancing before them accompanied by music. The brass gods are taken
out in procession in huge chariots or on the shoulders of Sudras of Dravidian
race. After all this royal honour, the idols are locked up in small rooms like
prisoners. Can there by any sense in this mimicry? Are we really honouring
god or actually insulting him?
Why worship cow dung?
Education is being lost on our people. Learned pundits, graduate scholars,
titled plutocrats do not seem to have gained anything by their education or
wealth. Like any illiterate peasant, these men do not hesitate to worship cow
dung and sprinkle cow’s urine on their heads. To wash themselves of their
sins, they stoop to drink dirty water as “theertham”. They stand like
mummies, while the stinking priest mutters something in the dead language,
Sanskrit. Look at the people going to Tirupathi at great expense and trouble
to get themselves tonsured. Why is that necessary?
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 363

Politicians and superstition
It is true nearly 90% of our people are illiterates. Government is seen to
take steps to improve this situation. But in doing so, I find the politicians
intent upon spreading and strengthening superstition. Teachers are being
warned not to ridicule the silly Puranas or disparage religion. How are the
young pupils to get at the truth? I wonder why our politicians do not realise
that it is this same old religion that have made them Sudras. They are still
Sudras though Ministers. Their ignorance and slavery to tradition is so great
that they seem to be unaware of the insult and shame that the Hindu religion
openly bestows on them.
Where educationists fail?
Our educationists do not seem to have expended a little thought on the
need to change the educational methods even after independence. The
fantastic stories, born out of the imagination of ancient poets, like the
Ramayana and Mahbharata are still being regarded as historical truths and put
into our history books. The events of the Ramayana and Mahabharata are
stated to have taken place in the Tretha and Dwapara yugas (eras), i.e.
millenniums ago. There is absolutely no historical evidence, documentary or
otherwise, for these epics. Yet our educationists would have them in the
history books. How can we hope to make our children use their brain to seek
the truth if fairy tales and fantasies are told as history? When is our
government to become rational and scientific?
The thing I call god
The god that is without a name and a form, the god that makes all people
equal and free, the god that speaks for high thinking and plain living, the god
that does not stop free thinking and research, the god that does not ask for
food, money, flattery, and temples can certainly be an object of worship. The
religion that stands for justice, truth, equality, and wisdom may be followed.
For saying this much I have been called an atheist, a term that has no
meaning. Nevertheless, atheism does not frighten me and need threaten none.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 364

10. CASTE AND WOMEN
The caste system has perverted our ideas about human conduct. The
principle of different codes of conduct for each caste based on birth, and life
led in accordance with it for centuries, have spoiled the Hindu mentality
almost beyond repair and destroyed the idea of uniformity in conduct. Graded
inequality has got so much into the Hindu blood that general intelligence is
warped and refuses to mend even after English education and higher
standards of living.
Force of tradition is the stock excuse
It is not therefore uncommon to find even college professors, England
returned scholars and experts, politicians and lawyers behaving in their
homes exactly like the unlettered Hindu priest or peasant in remote village.
The one stock excuse these educated men blurt our for the inconsistencies in
their life, is the force of tradition. They are quick to blame their old ladies at
home. The fact is they have not the courage to practice their convictions, but
quietly submit to superstitious tradion in the name of domestic peace, but let
their education go to waste.
Education merely to find a good job and make easy money is no
education. This is why all educated persons are not wise. Wisdom and culture
have to be cultivated independently and may be had even without education.
Education ought to help man to become wise and cultured. Caste and religion
prevent the educated man in India from progressing towards wisdom and
culture.
Why a subordinate position to women?
In all the world, chastity and love have been used to subordinate women
and subject them to men’s control. Likewise, morality has been used to
deceive and exploit the poor and the downtrodden. Chastity, Love, truth,
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 365

justice, morals, etc., are all children of the same mother. They have all been
used to make the proletariat to stick to a certain line of conduct for the
ultimate benefit of clever and strong people.
It is said that laws are all man-made and hence the subordinate position
accorded to women. It can also be said that laws are all made by the strong
and the mighty to subjugate the weak and the lowly.
Fear complex on children
Just as children are kept under control through the fear-complex, the
common man is taught virtuous conduct to keep him submissive to the
exploiting classes and if possible to worship them as demi-gods. Children
submit to the fear-complex and make believe only so long as their
intelligence is undeveloped. Even so, the exploiting classes can keep the
privileges to themselves only so long as the common people are kept in
darkness in regard to their rights and the truth about conduct preached to
them is hidden.
Peep into the past of one’s own life
What is prescribed as good conduct or bad conduct is to be measured by
the strength and cleverness of the party that lays down the rules, and not by
their intrinsic worth.
Ordinarily, prostitution, falsehood, theft, and deceit are declared to be bad
conduct, but there in no man who is not subjected to one of these in his daily
life. The practice may not be open in some cases and in some others may not
be apparent. A dispassionate peep into the past of one’s own life will disclose
periods or occasions, when virtue was set at naught for personal benefit. A
little analysis of the conduct of our close relatives, friends or acquaintances
will show us instances of their bad dealings and dishonest ways.
Good conduct only to others
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 366

People in general depend for their livelihood on commerce, agriculture,
public services, manufacture, the professions, etc. who amongst these
conduct themselves virtuously all through their lives? It is not our purpose
here to define virtue or good conduct. The purpose is to discuss what people
in position and power mean when they talk about virtue and good conduct to
others who are unfortunate in life.
A capitalist will be found to scold a worker for an act, which he himself
would do openly. An officer in government service will find fault with a
clerk for offences or lapses from which he (the officer) himself is not free.
The only difficulty is that the clerk will not be able to say so in the face of the
officer. To whom then is virtue preached? Likewise a father would be found
to condemn his son for acts which the father is himself doing. People given to
bad habits are therefore to be found criticizing those habits in others.
Caste system, the great ‘help’
This is not true only of a section of the people. It is true for all people.
What I wish to emphasize is that virtue or good conduct is what we wish in
others and not necessarily in ourselves. It is largely used to deceive others,
who are low in the social scale and poor in wealth, and not used to really
establish an egalitarian socialist society.
For inconsistent conduct such as this, the Hindu caste system is a great
‘help’. What is good and virtuous for some castes is bad for others. Bad
conduct is permissible for some castes and prohibited for other castes. The
principle of’ ‘do unto others as you would like to be done to you by others’ is
wholly inconsistent with the Hindu caste system.
Part and parcel of their blood
If it is a fact that there is such a thing as bad conduct, and if theft,
falsehood, and deceit are components of it, these characteristics are largely to
be found amongst kings, priests, merchants, lawyers, politicians, etc., and
certainly not amongst the poor and illiterate peasants, and workers. The
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 367

people, who cause pain and impoverish, deceive and degrade the masses, are
these groups of exploiters.
It would be no exaggeration to posit that bad conduct in general is part
and parcel of the blood of these classes. Yet it is strange that these groups do
not excite the dislike of the people. Indeed they are their objects of veneration
or worship. This is so only because the masses are ill-educated and devoid of
wisdom.
Not by reform but by revolution
Good conduct is that which we not merely preach to others but also
practise ourselves. One should respect another in the way in which he expects
to be respected by the other. This is a revolutionary principle for the Hindus.
It can materialise not by reform but only by revolution. There are certain
things, which cannot be mended but only be ended.
The Historic Background!
Note: “The Golden Sayings of Periyar” was published in Tamil in 1949.
The then Congress Government banned the book. Later in 1979, the All India
Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (A.I.A.D.M.K.) Government headed by
Mr. M.G. Ramachandran lifted the ban on the book as follows:
Public (Law & Order – B) Department G.O.Ms. No.1162 Dated: the 15th
June 1970.
Read:
G.O. Ms. No.692, Public (General-A) Department, Dated:
20-2-1950.
From the Inspector-General of Police, D.O. Letter No.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 368

C 12/61728/C, dated : 4-12-1978.
Order:
In the Government Order read above, it was notified under section 19 of
the Indian Press (Emergency Powers) Act.1931 (Central Act. XXIII of 1931)
(Since repealed) that every copy of the Tamil book entitled ‘Pon Mozhigal’
by Thiru E.V.Ramasamy Naicker., published by the “Dravida Mani
Pathippagam,“ Tiruchirapalli and printed at “Madras Ripon Press,”
Pudukkottaai and all other documents containing copies or translations of the
said book in as much as it contains matter of the nature described in section
4(1) (d) and (h) of the said Act, be declared to be forfeited to the
Government.
The Periyar Centenary Committee constituted by the Tamil Nadu
Government in connection with the Periyar Centenary Celebration
recommended, inter alia, that the ban on books by Periyar E.V. Ramaswamy
may be lifted.
The Government, after careful consideration of the matter in the altered
circumstances since the ban order referred to above, direct that the orders
issued in the Government Order read above be cancelled with immediate
effect.
(By order of the Governor)
V.Karthikeyan,
Chief Secretary to Government.
GOLDEN SAYINGS OF PERIYAR
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 369

(Translation of a few selected sayings published first in the form of a
booklet in 1949.)
GOLDEN SAYINGS OFPERIYAR
Politics
The Muslims may be seen to perform many somersaultsin politics. But no
Muslim would say that he is not a Dravidian by nationality.
* * *
You may ask me “Won’t you ever care for posts and power?” Of course I
will, but not now. That time will come. What is that time? It is that time,
when we will be able to say that there are no Brahmins in the country. When
we come to that position, we may worry about the posts and power. Until
such time we will not at all think of these posts and power. We will simply
consider them as what we have spit on the ground. We are aware of what
these posts are. They have made many dishonest. They have made many
unreliable.
* * *
As things stand today no real public worker or social worker would even
think of peeping at the Legislative Assembly. Those who are not worried
about the country or people, are styling themselves as politicians. They are
alone going around the Assembly for mere selfish gains. They are only
seeking posts and power. They are playing the second fiddle to the tunes of
those in power. Sincere and true social worker will never approve of the
present political arena.
* * *
How can we consider the people wise who voted for and elected the
persons who have used their posts for personal gains?
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 370

* * *
If we are not able to get good people to occupy posts, it must be that the
voters are unintelligent or it must be that intelligent people have no voting
rights.
* * *
We (the Dravidian citizens of Tamil Nadu) say that our politics and
industries should not be dominated by North Indians. We say, it is on account
of this evil, that we find degeneration. Why should the nationalists cross
swords with us for telling this? Can any intelligent man say that there is no
North Indian domination? Is it for this that we demanded freedom and
independence? Is it to make the Northerners masters of the Tamil land and
ourselves (the Dravidians) as mere slaves that we did so many things?
* * *
What do we say after all? The sons of the soil are in the grips of poverty.
At the same time we seem the North Indians leading a happy life in multi-
storeyed buildings. How could we tolerate this? Our business and industries
are in the hands of others. That is why we say that we must be free to control
our matters and not allow the North to dominate our economics and politics.
* * *
We have no clothes to cover our body. We have no shelter. We have no
schools to learn. We have no safety for living. Sec. 144, thefts, murders,
robbery are very common. How are we to accept this as Swaraj (Self-
Government)? The Swaraj we wish to see is different. We want a Swaraj
wherein there will be no ‘Sudra’, where there will be no exploitation of any
kind. Is it this Swaraj we demand?
* * *
Academic degrees, posts, and earnings may last for one generation only.
What will become the fate of your Tamilan people in the next generation?
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 371

* * *
Those who are prepared to lose their self-respect, honour and dignity find
it convenient to shield themselves under the cloak of Indian nationalism.
* * *
The people who love fame, money, posts are like the deadly disease,
tuberculosis. They are against the interests of the society.
* * *
There is no proof to state that India was at anytime free form
communalism.
* * *
What we need today are plans and schemes to make the people of the
country honest and unselfish. Hatred to none and love for all is what is
needed today.
* * *
Those who have gained a dominant position in politics by keeping the
people in ignorance could never be deemed to have any connection with
wisdom.
* * *
We call ourselves a secular state. It is merely to hoodwink the outside
world. ‘Homam’ (Flame Worship), Pooja and Aradana are performed even to
float a newly built ship into the sea. Even the time and day of Swaraj
(Independent Government) were chosen only after considering the good and
bad time astrologically.
* * *
I sometimes feel agitated and wish that I should meet the end of Gandhi
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 372

(who was shot dead by a fanatic Brahmin). My feeling is that our people
might realise their honour and self-respect at least after me.
* * *
If the country is to gain true freedom, there must be revolutionary changes
in our religion, government and authority. Without that, merely criticizing
politics will not solve the problem. Merely indulging in the blind attacks will
not take us to the goal.
* * *
Taking into consideration the present status of the people, democracy is a
mere farce. Why? Because 90 percent of the people are illiterates. Democracy
today will not do any good.
* * *
Today ten and a half crores of rupees are allotted for education. The
education system is so carefully chalked out that only the sons of the well to
do people are alone able to derive the benefit of education. The sons of the
poor and the villagers who pay the taxes are not able to share the benefit.
* * *
We are talking aloud of Swaraj? Is the Swaraj to you the Tamilians or for
the North Indians? Is it for you or for the capitalist? Is it Swaraj for you or for
the black marketeer? Is it for the labourer or for those who suck his blood?
* * *
What is Swaraj? One should have enough to eat, dress and live in Swaraj.
Do you find it in our society today? Then, where is Swaraj?
* * *
What respect do the ministers have here? They are to simply dance to the
tune of the masters at Delhi. Who respects their posts? Even their own
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 373

conscience will not respect them.
* * *
The Government states that it is against communalism. If it is really so,
will they pass a law stating that anyone wearing a caste mark on his forehead
will be imprisoned for two years? Would they come forward to bring an
enactment stating that anyone wearing a sacred thread (Poonul) will be
imprisoned for life?
* * *
Are not these two symbols the root cause for the communalism? If the
government is really for putting down communalism, should it not give a
scissor to every policeman to cut the ‘poonul’or the tuft representing castes
and communities? Today the government permits the wearing of ‘poonul’. It
allows ‘mantras’ (hymns) to be chanted, vows to be performed. It declares
holiday for the birth of Krishna and others. What is all this? Are we to
presume that this government is purely a pro-Brahmin communal
Government?
* * *
Are there holidays for the birthday celebration of Tiruvalluvar, Kapillar,
and Avvai (the great Tamil Poets and Poetess)? In what respects are they
inferior to Raman, Krishnan and others? Is this not insulting us? Is this not a
challenge to our self-respect?
Religion?
Let us analyse, who the high caste and low caste people are. He who does
no work, he who lives out of the toil of others is the highest caste. He who
strives hard and bestows the gains to others, and struggles hard without
shelter, cloth or gruel like a mere beast of burden is called the low caste.
* * *
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 374

He who has faith in god and religion can never hope to gain freedom.
* * *
When once a man dies, he has no connection with this world or with
anything elsewhere.
* * *
There can be no life or soul outside and unconnected with the various
sense organs and parts of the body.
* * *
What is the meaning of heaven and salvation as is interpreted by religious
books? One should be free from worries and sorrows. That is the true
meaning. It is not that one should go to some other world and quietly take
rest on a velvet cushion.
* * *
People talk about the ‘Dharma Rajyam’, ‘Rama Rajyam’ and ‘Sathiya
Keerthi Rajyam!’ Evil deeds, injustice, difficulties, poverty and slavery, we
see in our days, were also present in the past. This is what a deep study of the
‘Puranas’ (Mythologies) reveals.
* * *
Protagonists of every religion say that their religion is the oldest. They
say that their religion is merely thousands of years old. They say that their
doctrines were expounded in this world by their own gods long ago. Yet they
do not keep quiet from preaching. They are afraid that their religion will fade
out, if regular propaganda is not made. That fear is there with all religions.
* * *
It is money and propaganda that give life to religions. This is no divinity
or super qualities that keeps the torch of religion bright and burning.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 375

* * *
Religious heads as Gurujis (Teachers), Karthas (Creators) and Pracharaks
(Propagandists), venture to behave like religionists. For, ,they imitate other
religionists. To earn recognition, they copy the ways of religionists.
* * *
The bedrock of religion is blind belief. Science has no bearing to
religions. So also rationalism is different from religion. All religionists say
that no one should suspect or question anything. This has given courage even
to the idiot to say anything he pleases in the name of religion. Absurdities are
having an eternal hold in the name of religion and god.
* * *
We do not see so many religions, so many religious differences, and so
much conversions anywhere in the world as we see in India. What is the
reason? Indians are so illiterate, so subordinated that they are easily exploited
by the religionists.
* * *
In the matter of determining one god, one world above, salvation, hell,
soul and that soul reaching heaven, or hell, there is no uniformity amongst all
religions. There are many differences and controversies amongst religions in
these matters.
* * *
There is no religion that is prepared to prove the existence of god. There
is no ‘Veda’ that is acceptable to all the people. There is no ‘Veda’ that can
be strictly adhered to by people honourably.
Man has intelligence. Man gains knowledge by experience. With his
powers to use his sense organs he learns many things. Religion, which does
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 376

not conform to any of these, is unwanted to the world.
* * *
Out of those who profess to have knowledge of Tamil, 90% of them are
religious minded. They see god in the Tamil language. They surrender their
knowledge to religion. They look at the Tamil language with a religious eye.
* * *
The scholars in foreign countries do not mix up religion with language.
They do not mingle their religion, with their language.
* * *
Progress is varying from place to place and from time to time. Even
changes are not even. Both of these are related to the wisdom prevalent. It is
not something like what religionists see. It is not based on mere foresight as
religious Pundits (shcolars) say.
* * *
However fanatical a religious minded person be, he does not resent
changes. He does not give up the benefits of scientific progress. No one has
so far gone to wilderness, rejecting progress and changes as unacceptable to
god and religion.
* * *
In the matter of habits, classifications, divisions and differences, there is a
striking contrast between the Aryans and the Dravidians (Tamils). At the
same time there is not even an hundredth part difference between a Tamilian
and a Muslim.
* * *
The prevalent evils in the Hindu Aryan religion cannot be seen in Islam
even to a little extent.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 377

* * *
Almost all the religions are said to be for the creation of a good society in
the world. But it is only in the Hindu-Vedic-Aryan religion that we find
difference. This religion is not for unity or cordiality.
* * *
The Brahmins made us Sudras (Sons of prostitutes or concubines) with
the help of Sastras (Hindu dogmas) and Puranas (Mythologies). We have
accepted the Hindu religion. We have dug tanks, built temples, donated
wealth. But who is enjoying? Brahmins only are enjoying.
* * *
The Brahmins conspired to make us Sudras eternally. With the result, we
are made as slaves by the Aryan religion. To safeguard their position they
have created temples and gods.
* * *
Either religion should be destroyed or we should get rid of the religion. It
is for us to get ourselves rid of the religion. It is not a big thing. We need not
tread the path of violence. We need no guns. It is not anything like taking a
purgative ! Out of the religion, which the Aryans have imposed, we should
give up all those things that are absurd, vulgar and unbelievable. We should
accept a new religion that is acceptable to the mankind.
* * *
The wealthy people, the educated people, the merchants, the priestly class
are being benefited by casteism, religion, dogmas, and god. They do not
undergo any trouble on account of these. They gain a higher status by all
these.
* * *
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 378

We cannot say that our religion or Veda or gods are of very recent origin.
* * *
What is Saivism? No one can say that it is a distinct separate religion. It
cannot be construed that it is the religion of the Tamils. It is also Brahmanic
in content and character.
* * *
It is ‘Kanda Puranam, Siva Maha Puranam and other puranas which bring
in relationship between Siva and Saivism. If you separate these Puranas, Siva
will have nothing to do with Saivism.’
* * *
If you reject Vedas, yagas (fire-worship), and the gods which were
created to save these and also reject the puranas foisted by Aryans, there will
be no connection whatsoever for Thevaram (Prayer verses adoring God Siva)
and Tamil religion.
* * *
If we are to deeply consider what these religions Vaisnavism and Saivism
are, we will come to the conclusion that they are, nothing but mere
contrivances to uphold the privileges of the Brahmins and their domination.
These make the people unconsciously submit to Brahmin monopoly and
domination.
* * *
If Hinduism, its art and rituals are to be strictly implemented you will find
the Brahmins as very high and superior and the Dravidians degraded to the
status of Sudras (Sons of prostitutes) or panchamas (the Untouchables).
* * *
Even those who are placed high by the doctrine of Varnasrama dharma
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 379

(Dogma of Casteism) do not seem to respect it nowadays. That is the real
truth.
There are ample evidences to substantiate the fact that this country of
India has been ruined by the caste system.
* * *
There is no proof to say that there was self-respect amongst any of the
Tamil kings. It cannot be proved that any Tamil King had the curiosity to ask
as to why he should be called a Sudra.
* * *
We, the Dravidians are the early inhabitants of this country. We come of
the old ruling class. To day we are subjected to the status of the fourth caste.
Why? Our forefathers, ancestors and our kings who behaved in a disgraceful
manner are responsible for the present humiliated position we enjoy.
* * *
Who are these heads of mutts? The wealth they enjoy belongs to the
Dravidians. As givers of all these, we have the right to command them to
behave properly, to render proper accounts and to serve the people usefully.
They were made heads of mutts to function with responsibility.
* * *
How could anyone say that it is not right to demand account from those
who idly lead their lives. It is our right to ask them. Those who enjoy their
life with the money of others have no right to demur or object, when asked to
render account for the wealth entrusted to them.
* * *
While all men are born as equals, to say that Brahmins alone are the
highest and all others are low as Pariah (the Untouchables) or Panchama is
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 380

sheer nonsense. It is roguish to say so. It is a big hoax played on us.
* * *
A religion should be for fostering love. It should induce one to be helpful
to others. It should make everyone respect truth. A religion that is
characteristic of all these qualities is needed for the world. A true religion
will have no other important work.
* * *
A few characterless people and so-called big people in the society and the
so-called big newspapers are making the people fools by their religious
propaganda.
* * *
The Dravidians never had any idea of the word “Matham”(religion).
However for legal recognition we have got to call ourselves ‘rationalists’.
* * *
Remember that it is religion and politics that led to the murder of Gandhi.
Unless they are changed, there is no security for the life of man.
* * *
Nowadays even an ordinary peon is able to fly in the air. Yet a very small
idol of god is placed in a wooden chariot weighing 200 tones and is dragged
by about 2000 or 3000 people. In the name of this car festival, people are
made to waste their hard earned money. When we say this, we are dubbed as
atheists. We deem it our duty to warn them that they are the real atheists, as
they are spoiling the name of god.
* * *
Who are those who feel irritated at the atheist activities? They are of two
categories. Those who aspire to live by religious propaganda and those who
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 381

live by the religious propaganda. These are the two sects of people, who feel
agitated at the atheist activities.
Atheism can be understood by education, proper enquiry and by
independent, unbiased thinking. Atheism cannot be understood by reading
books saying that god said such and such a thing. Atheism cannot be
understood by being a slave to the misnomers of incarnations. By probing
deep into the religious literature, no one can gain a knowledge of atheism.
God
We have not left the ‘god’ free. Why do you want the temples- Gopurams
(towers)? Why do you want Poojas (worship)? Why do you want a wife; a
concubine? Why do you want golden jewels and diamond ornaments? Why
do you want food? Do you eat? Are you enjoying the Devadasis (Temple
Dancing whore) who call themselves as your wives? We have not left god?
We have pestered him with a volley of questions. No god has so far come
forward to answer. No god has come forward to protest. No god dared to
attack or punish us.
* * *
Who built the tall and the tapering towers? Who painted the gold at the
top? Who set the golden roof for Nataraja? Who built the ‘mandapam’ (Hall)
with 1000 pillars? Who worked hard to build the choultries? Has any
Brahmin given a single pie as donation for any of these, temples, tanks, and
charitable things? When this is the truth, why should we remain as Sudras
(Sons of prostitutes)? Why should they live as high caste Brahmins without
contributing anything. Why should they be allowed to dupe us. That is why,
we are boldly challenging god. God has not done any good to the people.
That is why, we ask god whether he is really a God or a mere stone. God
remains tongue-tied and motionless as though he is accepting our charges. No
god has gone to the court for a defamation suit against us.
* * *
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 382

If the religion says that a man should be respected as man, we will not
object. If the religion says that there is no high and low distinctions in the
society, we do not protest against that religion. If the God says that no one
need spend anything to worship him, we will not oppose that god.
* * *
We find the young kids pass urine in mud and make articles as tiffin
(‘iddillis’), gods and goddesses for playing. Whereas the aged people are
playing the same game with stone idols they say this is god, this is god’s
wife, this is marriage, this is the saree for god, this is the jewel for God and
so on. It is all merely to deprive the poor innocent people of their money.
That is why, we are against the stone idol that gives a living only to the
priestly class, the Brahmins.
* * *
You find the wise world worshipping one god without shape. You find
them not wasting money for the worship. They simply pray. But what about
you? Why should you alone knock your head against the stone idol of Hindu
religion.
* * *
There can be no objection to a God that endeavours to make the high and
the low in the society live as equals.
* * *
The Brahmins are making you fools in the name of God. He makes you
have faith in superstitions. He leads a very comfortable life condemning you
as untouchable. He bargains with you to offer prayers to god on your behalf. I
strongly condemn this brokerage business and warn you not to believe such
Brahmins any more.
* * *
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 383

There is evidence to prove to the orthodox Hindus that some of the gods
have taken Muslim girls as their life-partners. There are gods, which loved
girls of the untouchable community and married them.
* * *
However much the Brahmins may come forward to bargain in the matter
of castes, so long as Krishna and Gita are there, there is not going to be an
end to the castes.
* * *
Without first of all determining as to what god is, everyday controversies
are going on about god in the world.
* * *
o you know why the Chera, Chola, Pandiya and the Nayak kings were
ruined? It is because they spent the money of the people for building the
temples, tanks, mandapams, gopurams and the temple walls etc.
* * *
God must be the embodiment of all good qualities. God needs no shape. It
cannot exist physically.
* * *
God has no shape nor can it exhibit any quality. Why is it said to be so? It
is to prevent the rogues from giving various shapes to the god. It is on
account of the fear that god will lose its value.
* * *
Without any knowledge of god’s existence, his quality, actions and
power, Brahmins have made all gods a laughing stock, just to get on with
their bellies fully filled easily.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 384

* * *
We should prevent god coming on human beings for some time and the
actions of the so-called Hindu devotees. We should also put an end to the
practice of calling on gods to come on devotees. Atleast to some extent, we
should make our gods acceptable to the decent and the intelligent people.
* * *
There is no Brahmin or Sudra (Bakward Caste) or Pariah (the
Untouchables) in England. In Russia you do not have Varnasrama (Casteism)
dharma or fate. In America, people are not born in the face of the Brahma or
at the feet of Brahma. In Germany gods do not eat. In Turkey gods do not
marry. In France gods have not a crown (‘Kireedam’) worth 12 lakhs. The
people in these countries are intelligent and wise. They are not prepared to
lose their self-respect. They are bent on safeguarding their interests and that
of their country. Why should we alone have barbarious gods and religious
fanaticism.
* * *
It is a great fraudulent act to attribute powers to a mass of cowdung. It is
very absurd to attribute godly powers to the same. Similarly to say that a
piece of stone is the embodiment of god with all powers to do anything and
everything is a big hox.
* * *
We should not imagine a god with a definite shape or form. We can
accept only things which are honest, disciplined and scientifically tested and
proved as truths.
* * *
The country has lost its decency and status just because we are in the
habit of praising the stone gods or idols. Men are also imbibing beastly
qualities.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 385

* * *
stroy the god that calls you a Sudra (Son of prostitute or concubine).
Destroy the ‘puranas (Mythologies) and the ‘ithihasas’ (epics) which give
strength to Hindu god. Pray the god that is really kind, good, and intelligible,
if any.
* * *
What is Prayer? Is it breaking coconuts? Is it giving money to Brahmins?
Is it in festivals? Is it falling at the feet of the Brahmins? Is it building
temples? No, it lies in our good behaviour. We should behave as intelligent
people. That is the essence of Prayer.
Society
Once upon a time, we, the Dravidians were called as Tamils. Today the
word Tamil is used to denote the Tamil Language. Naturally even those who
have Aryan culture and civilisation call themselves as Tamils, just because
they speak Tamil. Not only that, they further want to impose their Aryan
civilisation on us. I say that we are today called as Sudras because of our
association with them.
* * *
We are not worried about the blood. We are worried about the culture and
civilisation. We want a society without differences. We do not want to
segregate anyone because of the prevalent discriminations in the society.
* * *
The Muslims in South India are all Dravidians. Historians and research
scholars are of the same view. Why even the Muslims accept it
unhesitatingly.
* * *
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 386

The Christians here are not the descendents of those in Jerusalem. People
who were once called Raman, Krishnan, Subban, Kathavarayan, are today
styling themselves as Joseph, John, Samuel. Based on nationality they are not
different from us. This is what the researchers also say.
The society is encouraging the immoral traffic by approving the
widowhood.
* * *
By helping the poor, we must be able to remove their poverty. By
extending help to one here and one there in the form of providing food will
not remove poverty.
* * *
Hindu religion and castes were introduced to estabish the principle of
servant and master.
* * *
Even those who keep their wives locked up in the house, generally permit
their wives to attend religious festivals outside. They see their wife crushed in
the crowd. But they do not mind it. They tolerate it in the name of religious
festivals.
* * *
If we are to reveal and expose the behavior of the gods of Brahmins, our
mouth, hands, and paper would produce a nasty smell. If the educated high
caste people are to tolerate it and live with the evils, what is to become of the
other Non-Brahmins who form 90 percent of the population.
* * *
Why should there be high caste and low caste in the country of India,
which is said to have gained independence. Can any one say that things could
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 387

go on only when there is high caste in the country. Can it be argued that the
high caste Brahmins alone are people with sterling character.
* * *
If god is the root cause for our degradation destroy that god. If it is
religion destroy it. If it is Manu Darma, Gita, or any other Mythology
(Purana), burn them to ashes. If it is temple, tank, or festival, boycott them.
Finally if it is our politics, come forward to declare it openly.
* * *
The word ‘Sudra’ which means ‘Son of prostitute’ should not find a place
even in the history hereafter. We will not allow it to find a place in the
dictionary or encyclopedia.
* * *
Our country would be considered to have gained independence only when
the villagers are completely rid of god, religion, castes, and blind beliefs.
South India is quite different form the North in many respects. It is a
distinct and separate State of Dravidian race.
* * *
Our life, culture and civilisation are quite different from the North.
* * *
Man is equal to man. There should not be exploitation. One should help
the other. No one should harm anybody. Generally there should be no room
for grievance or complaint from anybody. Every one should live and let
others to live, with a national spirit.
* * *
ravidanadu (Madras Presidency) is not inferior to any other province in
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 388

Hindustan. This is an historic fact. Our merits are already established. After
all the North Indians are far behind us in education, civilisation, and wisdom.
Why should we be slaves, particularly to the fanatic, communal minded
people?
Movement
We have no belief in violence. We know that a Brahmin would run away
when a riot breaks out. He will some how take to his heels. He will not be
caught. So far as we are concerned, we have not taken up the path of
violence, with the hope of reaching heaven or receiving god’s blessings.
* * *
No movement that believes in violence will be able to achieve its goal in a
violent manner. Non-violent means is the only royal road to gain success.
* * *
When we say and point out that the poor people have no food or clothes,
repression is let loose immediately. We need a movement to resist. That is
what our movement is doing.
* * *
If we are truthful and hard working even if we are a minority, we will be
able to do greater service to the people. Even a political party with mass
support will not be able to do so much.
* * *
There should be no intermediaries between the agriculturist and the
public. Similarly there should be no brokers between the working class and
the public. That is the policy of the Self-respect Movement.
* * *
What is the ideal of the Self-respect Movement. The Self-respect
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 389

Movement will find out the organisations, which stand in the way of
progress. It will combat the forces, which work against the socialism. It will
counteract all religious reactionary forces. It resists those who break the law
and order. The Self-respect Movement will work for peace and progress. It
will crush the reactionaries.
* * *
To carve out a socialist society, to do good to the common man and the
depressed classes the Self-respect Movement was started. Today the
Movement shoulders a further responsibility, to establish peace and
contentment among all sections of the society.
* * *
It is the duty of every living person to go on doing things throughout his
life. That is the ideal of the Self-respect Movement.
* * *
With the help of rationalism, a Self-respecter will decide whether a thing
is good or bad. It is not the words of the God, mahatmas (Super souls), rishis
(sages) or puranas (mythologies), which help him in the pursuit of truths.
* * *
A Self-respecter will not worry about anything except his duty and
responsibility.
* * *
We have no objection to Sankarachri of HIndu Mutt presiding over our
conference, because he will have to first understand our rationalist policies,
ideals and schemes before he consents to preside.
* * *
We need not be unnecessarily afraid of our movement and principles
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 390

being eclipsed by others’ propaganda. No one as the Brahmin Sankarchrayas
and their preaching will eclipse our movement.
* * *
However much we suffer, we do not think of force. We plead for justice.
We place our faith in arguments and convincing others, for establishing the
truth. Even if we fail in our attempt we will go on trying again and again.
We understand how much we are inferior to other nations of the world in
the matter of freedom, wisdom, and self-respect. When we realise how
lethargic we were, neither god nor religion will be allowed to obstruct our
progress.
* * *
If the people and the country are to prosper, education, scientific
knowledge, technology, and discipline should be improved a lot.
* * *
All these thirty years the movement has been for giving prime importance
to knowledge.
* * *
If anyone should venture to say, “This is what great people said this is
what god said; I am repeating only what all God and great people said,” I
would only consider him as the foremost anti-social element.
* * *
Our progressive views have taken deep roots in the country. Let us forget
the petty political differences and unite together for atleast a period of five
years and take up social reform. Brahminism and foreign domination would
automatically go away.
* * *
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 391

on’t believe those who carry on false propaganda attributing powers to the
stony idol. Such people can never be deemed to be religious. Youngsters
should come forward to expose fraudulent and blind beliefs.
* * *
The country and the people are now in a position to carry on my ideals
one by one. Revolution of the mind and the change of times will no longer
permit the old game of defrauding the public.
The Dravidian movement will be active and alive till the complete
eradication of the Brahminism. Till that time whatever atrocity, repression,
conspiracy, betrayal might be let loose on us by our enemies or government,
we have the confidence that the ultimate success will be certainly ours.
* * *
We are not accustomed to conspire secretly. Our movement is not an
unlawful body. We have no belief in violence. Yet I do not understand why
our meetings are banned. How are we to tolerate, if even the humble attempts
we make to eradicate the evils heaped on us are put down like this.
* * *
We have greater interest than the government in maintaining law and
order in the country.
* * *
The more and more we are made to shed blood, the greater will be the
reaction. We will make the government and the rulers regain self-respect
gradually.
* * *
I am depicted as anti-Brahmin by the vested press. But I am not really an
enemy of any Brahmin personally. The only fact is that I am dead against the
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 392

Brahminism. I never said that the Brahmins should be destroyed. I only say
that the Brahminism should be destroyed. No Brahmin seems to understand
clearly what say.
* * *
The Brahmin should not degrade us. He should not exploit us. He should
not think that he is empowered to enjoy anything at our cost.
* * *
There should be no castes. None should call himself as high or low
because of birth. This is what we demand. How is it wrong on our part to say
so?
* * *
We realise our responsibility to establish a good government in the future.
That is why we are very much hesitant to defy law. But the government
sometimes drives us to the necessity of going against our wishes. We
sometimes have no other go than to defy the law, just to make the
government realise its mistake.
* * *
Our Dravidian movement does not exist against the Brahmins or the
Banias. If anyone thinks so, I would only pity him. Bu we will not tolerate
the ways in which the Brahminism and the Baniaism is degrading
Dravidanadu. Whatever support they may have from the government, neither
myself nor my movement will be of cowardice.
* * *
We have agitated to make all wells thrown open to all. We have agitated
against the caste discriminations in the railway restaurants and public hotels.
We agitated against the evils of classifying men as high and low. For all these
we have undergone difficulties and courted imprisonment. But our agitation
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 393

has not failed to reap the fruits. We were not disappointed or defeated any
time, in anything. Ultimate success has always been to our ideals.
* * *
When were that temples thrown open to all the castes? Is it not after our
declaring “blow off the temples with the bombs, and the dynamites, if the
Untouchables (Pariahs and the Chakkilis) are not allowed to enter the
temple”. It is only after this that the temples were thrown open. Did we not
start the agitation to erase the letters of the caste discriminations in the
railway stations with tar? Is it not after this that the separate places for the
Brahmins in the railways were given up?
* * *
What is our aim? Is it to seek posts? No. Is it for mere fame? No! Is it to
capture power? No! Let the Congress itself rule. Let the aspiring
congressmen enter the Legislative Assembly. But if they act as mere slaves to
the Northerners, we will not keep quiet. We will oppose such a government.
* * *
Our Reformation movement is a wonderful one. That is, we want
improvement without seeking posts. We want to improve quality without
power. We want to achieve our goal without ourselves seeking posts or
power.
* * *
So far, we have not met with any failure in our agitations. Read the issue
of the ‘Hindu’dated 19-1-1922, when Pandit Malaviya urged Gandhi to stop
the picketing of toddy shops. Gandhi said to him that I was the person to
decide it. He stated that he cannot do anything without consulting me. I was
in the Congress then. This news is published in the Hindu. Take up the
Vaikom Agitation, to seek the right for walking in the streets around the
temple. I led the agitation and got the rights to the Untouchable people and
then only I returned. I even got the right to enter the temples. I am not
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 394

mentioning all these to flatter me. Mass support will always be there for lofty
ideals and I am an adept in these agitational matters. With my experience I
reiterate that in any agitation, the ultimate success will be for us.
Congress Party
Ever since I began to understand things, that is from 1909 onwards, I have
closely watched the activities of the Congress party. I say that it was bent on
merely capturing power.
* * *
Gandhi is of course a great man very well known to the world. He has led
a very wonderful revolution in politics. To be short, there is none to equal
him. He was peerless. True! He was really a great man. But it is really a pity
that he was shot dead in his own country.
* * *
What an amount of plunder and loot is going on in the name of Swaraj
(Self-Government). Is there any one to question it? I am the only person who
is bold to ask. Is there any people anywhere, who are so irrational submitting
to the difficulties so quietly as our people here?
* * *
The Brahmins and the rich people are alone being benefited by the
Congress party. It will not do good to the common man, the poor man and the
working classes. I was telling this for a long time. You people did not believe
my words. After having seen the things now going on in the Congress rule,
you people are now realising the truth.
* * *
Today the Congress party is blinking as to what to do with the
unscrupulous elements they have taken into their fold.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 395

* * *
Who sacrificed to enable the scheduled caste people to read, get jobs,
enter the temples, and use the public roads and wells? Has Congress party
anytime worked for the welfare of the scheduled castes? For what all the
Justice Party and the Self Respecters have done, the Congress party wants to
snatch away credit. Their talks are merely self-boasting.
* * *
When I was the President of the Tamil Nadu Congress party I brought a
resolution in the conference in 1925. In that resolution I pleaded for the
creation of a casteless society. My friend Rajagopalachari disallowed it. I also
pleaded that communal representation should be followed in the various
wings and spheres of the Congress. This resolution was also rejected, by
Thiru Vi.Ka. (Kalyanasundaranar, a reputed Tamil scholar) in the subjects
committee. Then I was asked to get the signature of 30 delegates in support
of my resolution. Mr.S.Ramanathan secured 50 signatures from the delegates.
Messrs. C. Rajagopala Achariyar (Rajaji), Srinivasa Iyengar, Satyamurthi,
and others raised their protest. They feared that the Congress would fade
away, if my resolution was accepted. Later the resolution was withheld by
Thiru V.Ka. and Dr. P. Varadarajulu Naidu. The Brahmins were happy. Not
only that, they did not even allow me to speak in the conference. It is only on
that day that I pledged to combat the dominant forces in the Congress party. I
resolved to wage a struggle for getting the Communal Representation
implemented. I declared my conviction in the conference and I walked out of
the Congress session. From that day onwards I have been exposing the tricks,
conspiracies and the fraudulent activities of the Congress party.
Government
In the days when the British ruled, there were thefts in our houses. But
now, in the days of Swaraj (Independence) we hear of theft in ministers’
houses and constables’ houses.
* * *
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 396

Those who were elected against the principles of democracy are seated in
Delhi. The task of deciding our fate is entrusted into their hands.
* * *
A person who was most hated and rejected by the people of this provinces
is given the highest post as the Governor General of India, after the
attainment of Independence. What does this indicate? The democratic rights
of the people in this Madras province is crushed.
* * *
What is called the freedom of speech and expression disappeared long
ago. Those who level legitimate charges against the government are being
imprisoned. They are falsely charged as enemies of Independence.
* * *
In our country the interests of the multi millionires and the capitalists are
quite safe. On the other hand we find the unemployed and the beggars by the
side of the rich and the capitalists!
* * *
On one side we find a big section of the people segregated as the
untouchables. Another section is treated as mere slaves, or Sudras, or sons of
the concubines. If we cannot really alter this, what is the use of our freedom?
* * *
It is foolish to assume power reposing faith in the support of slaves.
* * *
What will be the consequence of letting loose all weapons of repression?
If we cannot find any solution even to small problems except resort to
repression, what security there can be in the country? If the newspapers
remain as mere spectators what is to become of the security of the nation?
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 397

* * *
Members of the local bodies should not be elected on party basis. Voters
should consider the merits of the individual, as his honesty, sincerity, and
urge for service. This should be the basis. Local bodies are not law making
bodies nor do they have any right to amend. They exist only to carry out the
civic responsibilities and duties bestowed on them. As such there is no need
to bring in political controversies at all. It will only create distrust and
disrespect.
* * *
From the time the local bodies were converted into a cock-pit of political
controversies, they have gradually lost their status and the general interests of
the people were jeopardised.
* * *
If there is real autonomy for the local bodies, there will be no need to
collect taxes from the people. If the local bodies take the important trades,
cinema, hotels, etc., the huge profits in crores and lakhs, now amassed by the
rich capitalists could be got by the local bodies. With that income they could
create all facilities needed to the people. This is my firm view.
* * *
Let us ask for the particulars regarding the wealth and the profit accrued
to individuals already. Let us first devise means to stop the evil. Why should
we allow any individual to amass wealth?
* * *
Before the advent of the British rule, North and South of India were
independent. They insisted on keeping us together for their imperialist
designs. Today they are gone. Why not the old status be restored?
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 398

* * *
If the South India is free it will be friendly to the North. It will make its
own arrangements to defend its territory. This is how the various countries
exist in the world today.
* * *
People must be made self-respecting. They should be educated and be
wise. They should be rid of all blind beliefs. That will only pave the way for
a good government.
* * *
Gandhiji was murdered after getting independence of India in six months.
What a cruel and unjust thing in six months! If such a thing had happened in
any other country would the event be treated in this casual way?
* * *
This government came into existence by an arrangement made between
the Congress party and the British. It is not freedom that is given to all
Indians. By this freedom, non-congress people are not benefitted. They are
not represented anywhere. The evils of the Casteism dogma have not
disappeared.
* * *
Aryans made the Dravidians to celebrate the Deepavali festival, Rama’s
birthday, Krishna’s birthday. Similarly the Northerners made the Dravidians
celebrate August 15th as the Independence Day. That is all. There is no other
benefit or laudable reason.
* * *
Is it right on the part of the government to impose on us a Governor who
has “Sir”and other titles. He is a rich man styled as a Maharaja. His eyes
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 399

would not have seen the poor. How could he know the lives of ordinary
common man. He is one who has always led a comfortable life. Is he the fit
person to be the Governor for the people of Madras?
* * *
We, the Dravidians are not prepared to be slaves. We could no longer
starve for gruel. We do not like to be of the low caste. We do not believe that
our next birth will be good by suffering in this birth. We want to live as good
humans in this life itself.
* * *
You cannot find a man even in the mental hospital, who would denounce
wisdom and the fruits of hard work in this twentieth century.
* * *
Whoever it be, however great he may be, whatever he may say, I am of
the opinion that every one should think over prudently and independently in
an unbiased and impartial manner.
* * *
Every man has the right to express his opinion freely. It is this right to
exercise his right of expression. It is unjust to deny this right. Freedom of
speech is the bedrock of democracy.
Language
Our language will make our people unite under the banner of Tamilnadu
and Tamil language. It will make the Kanadigas, Andhras and the Malayalees
vigilant. A time will come for unity. This will go on till there is an end to the
North Indian domination. We will be carving out an independent sovereign
state for us.
* * *
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 400

If you remove the words of North Indian origin (Sanskrit) from Telugu,
Kannada and Malayalam you will be left with only Tamil. The Tamil spoken
by the Andhras and the Malayalees are by far better than the Tamil spoken by
the Brahmins. Historically those places were in Tamilnadu.
* * *
If any Dravidian shouts ‘Long live Hindi’, if any one even thinks so,
reject him as a low class person. One day he will become wise and repent.
If the North Indian quits, the Brahmin will remain silent. Then they will
themselves bid good-bye to castes. The foremost duty today is rooting out
Hindi. Why? Because Hindi is imposed with the motive of installing North
Indian domination.
* * *
Either Hindi should go or myself. Annadurai and our followers should be
cleared off the track. Otherwise this ministry should go! Unless any one of
these takes place there is no possibility of the ministers words becoming true.
Our agitation will not fade out. Our war will go on till we succeed, even if it
were to take one year or many years.
Rationalism:
Even as many plants are seen to grow without planting seeds, you will
find living beings reproduce without the need for intercourse between the
male and the female.
* * *
The life of man is different from that of the other living beings because
the life of man is greater and superior with higher and better qualities.
* * *
The philosophy of life does not have much difference as laid down in
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 401

various religions.
* * *
Any opposition not based on rationalism or science or experience will one
day or other, reveal the fraud, selfishness, lies and conspiracies.(add those in
pages 358-359)
The Labourer:
The rich people who exploit the labourers and try to safeguard their riches
and those who want to enjoy a happy life and those who crave to the God for
more riches and those who are for name and fame after death and those who
want to leave their wealth to their sons and grandsons are always in eternal
worry. That is not so with a hard worker or a labourer.
* * *
Who are the capitalists? If they give an increase of two annas as wages
they will raise the price of articles by four annas and make the very labourers
to buy at higher prices. What they give in the right hand they snatch away by
the left hand.
* * *
The labour problem is always a problem of the people in the world.It is
the labourer who builds everything in the world. World exists because of
their labour. But it is the same labourer who undergoes worries, difficulties
and sorrow.
* * *
If the labourers are to be rid of hardship and worries the capitalistic
outlook should be completely eradicated.
* * *
What is the basic aim of the labour agitation? It is to prevent the lazy
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 402

people, who do not work, enjoying life, and to help the downtrodden, hard
working classes regain a legitimate decent life.
* * *
In our country any one joining any organisation first calculates his profit
views whether it would fetch any fame and then becomes a member. The
feeling that one should serve the society and do good to the world is not to be
seen.
* * *
In our country when we happen to meet somebody we want to know what
post he holds and then give him the due respect. But in Russia it is not so.
When one meets the other they want to know first what social service one is
doing.
Thiru Kural, the Book on ethics by Thiru Valluvar:
People are talking high of Thiruvalluvar. But in practice they do not
respect his teachings. They act against him and dis regard him.
* * *
Thiruvalluvar has not mentioned a single word about God in his 1330
couplets. He has simply taken a few outstanding qualities attributed to god
for the purpose of explaining. Even in that, he has abstained from describing
god in a definite form. When such is the greatness of Kural, it cannot be said
that Kural is not useful to make the people tread the right path.
* * *
With the purpose of clearly exposing the differences between the Aryan
and the Tamil culture, civilisation, conduct and creed Thirukural was written.
I am of that firm view.
* * *
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 403

When you are asked to say what religion you belong, say “Valluvar
Religion”. When asked by anyone, say that you follow the path of
righteousness. No reactionary would stand before you as Kural is irrefutable.
* * *
Kural is a rare book that is above caste, religion, God and superstition. It
is the embodiment of high qualities and love.
* * *
Valluvar who is hailed by the educated and uneducated lays stress on
good conduct only. He has praised the Dravidians as the people of very high
character.
The only remedy for all Aryan ills is the Kural. Many poets have already
expressed the same view. Kural exposes the Aryan traits and foolishness. So,
follow Kural in your life and gain more and more wisdom.
* * *
When Dravidanadu was a victim to Aryan deceit, Thirukural was written
by a great Dravidian Thiruvalluvar to free the Dravidians.
* * *
Thirukural is acceptable to science, wisdom, and reason.
* * *
Valluvar describes God as wisdom and high qualities. He connotes God
as a wise man. He has not created God as a dishonest and immoral betrayer.
* * *
He who reads the Kural will definitely become a Self-respecter. It
contains profound knowledge of politics, society , and economics.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 404

* * *
There may be something that is unsuited to the modern times in Kural.
They could be changed. Kural permits such changes.
* * *
Manu’s code is against the Sudra of Dravidian race interests. There are
many proofs to illustrate this in Kural.
* * *
Thirukural was written to show a good path to the people to create values
in life and to develop a good order in the society.
* * *
Kural condemns the Hindu religion. It has taken the good in all the
religions. It unfurls all that is right and good.
* * *
Valluvar lays stress on self-knowledge. Every one should give up idol
worship if they are to follow Valluvar.
* * *
Christians should not think that they are superior just because they are
converted to Christianity. In fact, Christianity is also a religion based on
Kural. There is nothing in Kural that is against what is said in the Bible.
* * *
The Dravidar Kazhagam is adopting the Valluvar’s Kural.
* * *
Thiruvalluvar’s Kural alone is enough to educate the people of our
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 405

country.
* * *
We should realise that if we want to gain wisdom through a book it is
only ‘Kural’that can do that. So far as I am concerned though I do not profess
to have conducted vast research in ‘Kural.’ I have taken the cream out of it.
* * *
Instead of reading 100 poems of Ramayana and 200 poems of Periya
purana, it is enough you read 10 couplets of Kural.
ravidar Kazhagam
Our eyes were opened out to an extent by the Britishers. We, the
Dravidians want to get rid of the degradation imposed by Brahmins. We have
undertaken a very difficult task which did not strike a Mahatma, Maharishi,
Ganani, Nayanmar and Alwars. The Dravidar Kazhagam is not for any
reward or title. It is for the eradication of Caste System (Varnashrama
Dharma).
* * *
The Dravidar kazhagam wants to see the spread of communism by
education through non-violent means.
* * *
The non-violent path might take a long time to reach the goal but it will
certainly fetch success.
* * *
If there is disorder in the society it will only affect us and not the
Brahmins. Keep this in mind.
* * *
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 406

Unless Dravidanadu is seceded from India there can be no freedom, food
or good life. This is certain. I can even bet.
* * *
The Dravidar kazhagam functions with the object of creating a socialist
society.
* * *
Today the seeds of Dravidar kazhagam are spreading everywhere. Every
Dravidian is infused with the Dravidar Kazhagam’s ideals.
* * *
ravidar kazhagam is not for special recognition or fame by going to jail.
We want to win recongnition for doing hard work. Imprisonment will help
only an individual. Whereas hard and sincere work will help the society.
Perhaps the individuals may have to bear the difficulties and sufferings.
* * *
If you find mythologies (puranas) staged as drama even now, we have to
suspect the very birth of those who stage it.
* * *
On account of Dravidar Kazhagam many Heads of Hindu monasteries
have mended themselves (matathipathis) today.
* * *
Because the people are engulfed in the darkness of ignorance, the
Dravidar kazhagam mainly carries on propaganda to educate the people.
* * *
The work of the Dravidar Kazhagam is to educate the folk in all matters
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 407

related to God and religion. We want to make the people wise with self-
respect.
Untouchability
We demand the Vedas of Aryans to be burnt. The God that has created
the Untouchables (the lowest caste) should be broken to pieces and used for
laying the roads. Hinduism is a nauseating gutter and the Untouchables
should embrace Islam or Christianity to lead a life with self-respect.
Thousands have already converted so. What has the Congress party done
then? Catching hold of a few hirelings amongst the Untouchables, it carried
on anti-propaganda. What was the net result? Today the right to enter the
temples is given to all including the Untouchables.
* * *
Temples are thrown open to all. But it is the Brahmins only who still
enjoy the right to ring the bell, and snatch away the coins falling in the plate.
The lakhs of rupees spent in the name of temples is our money. Should it not
be shared by our Dravidian people?
A low caste Hindu by converting himself to other religions will not gain
anything, if his status remains the same in the new religion.
* * *
It is absurd to quote religion or God or religious doctrines to render the
people as lowest castes.
Rationalism
Wisdom lies in thinking. The spear-head of thinking is rationalism.
* * *
No other living being harms its own class. No other living being degrades
its own class. No other living being exploits its own class. But man, said to
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 408

be a rational living being does all these evils.
The differences, hatred, enmity, degradation, poverty, wickedness etc.,
now prevalent in the society are due to lack of wisdom and rationalism. They
are not due to God or the cruelty of time.
* * *
Capitalists control the machineries. They create difficulties to the
workers. Consequently rationalism, which has to lead the way for peaceful
life to all, has resulted in causing poverty and worries to the people because
of dominating forces.
* * *
Belief in God has only destroyed reason in man. That is why the position
of the rational human beings are today worse than animals. Humanity is sick
and sorrowful.
* * *
You cannot expect any rational thought from a religious man. He is like a
rocking log in water.
* * *
There is no use of simply acquiring titles or amassing wealth if one has no
self-respect and scientific knowledge.
* * *
Foreigners are sending messages to the planets. We are sending rice and
cereals to our dead fore-father through the Brahmins. Is it a wise deed?
* * *
I want to say a word to the Brahmins, “In the name of God, religion,
sastras you have duped us. We were the ruling people. Stop this life of
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 409

cheating us from this year. Give room for rationalism and humanism.”
* * *
I commenced opposing these Gods and Brahmins when I was 17 years.
From that time to this day I am preaching rationalism for 53 years. Am I
killed for that? Am I in disgrace? Not at all! Then why do you fear? Seek
wisdom.
Reform
Self-Respect Marriages are the marriages acceptable to modern times.
* * *
The common man thinks that the marriage is like appointing one to do his
work. The husband thinks so! The husband’s family thinks so. Every one
thinks that a girl is coming to the family to do work. Even the girl’s family
trains the girl to do the household work.
* * *
What for is a marriage? It is to unite a man and a woman to enjoy a
natural life with happiness. It is to find solace after hard work. Most of the
people do not realise that marriages are for sharing pleasures of the wedded
life.
* * *
Marriages should culminate on account of the wishes of the couple. It is
their knitting of the hearts that should lead to marriages.
* * *
We can only say that in this country an unmarried girl enjoys greater
freedom than those who are tied to the wedded life.
* * *
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 410

We see morality in speeches and writings. We do not find it in practice.
We are having different regulations for the males and the females. Our code
of conduct is unfair to women.
Child marriage is abolished. If there is right to divorce, right for widows
to remarry and if women are now given certain rights, we will not see
prostitution in the country. It will gradually disappear.
* * *
A male has the right to wander about as he pleases. He has the right to
marry any number of girls. This practice has led to prostitution.
* * *
No politician or economist is ready to accept the real social reform
schemes needed to the society.
* * *
Village reform is not merely cleaning the roads, constructing schools and
worshipping monsteries. It is not mere celebration of festivals.
* * *
I am accused of ruining the world. What is it I am going to gain by
ruining the world? I do not understand what the Brahmin devotees actually
feel. Will anyone carry on propaganda to ruin the world? I hope they would
soon think with reason.
Economics
It is the duty of the wise people to ascertain whether there has been any
benefit to the poor or to the country by the Khadhi cloth movement. It is only
an anachronism in the modern industrial and political times.
* * *
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 411

To say that one must gain a knowledge to prepare for himself what all one
needs might have been right when people were wandering in forests as
barbarians.
* * *
One could assess the measure of intelligence of Indians by taking into
account the faiths prevailing in customs, rituals, epics like Ramayana,
Baratham, and Peria Puranam. Similarly we can assess the political and
economic views of the Indians by analysing the Khadhi cloth policy.
* * *
The root cause for the poverty is the existence of capitalists in the society.
If there are no rich people in the society there will be no poverty.
* * *
Money lending is a horrible profession. If we are to call it otherwise it is
lawful plundering.
* * *
If there is cooperation on right lines, and if it is strong and sound, society
will be free from worries, we can enjoy a peaceful and contented life.
Cooperation will lead to that.
* * *
As long as we give room for domination and dominators, there will be
worries and worried people. Poverty and pestilence will live eternally in the
country.
* * *
If we can divert the wealth of the temples and the income accruing to the
temples, to start new industries there will be no beggar, no uneducated man,
and no man with a low status. There will be a socialist society with perfect
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 412

equality.
* * *
What pride is there in saying that the Britishers are gone. In their place
traders like Marwadis, Gujaratis, and Banias of North India have settled
down here in Tamil Nadu. They are exploiting freely. When we see the
exploitation of these Northerners, we feel that we can even forget the
Brahmins.
* * *
Even if the Brahmin swindles money he spends it here in Tamil Nadu. He
is going to die here. But it is not the case with the North Indians. When
opportunity arises he takes away gold, silver, copper and cash and goes away
beyond 2000 miles with his bag and baggage.
* * *
A marwadi who sells the eatable mixture in a small vehicle soon becomes
a big businessman, in a few years and does roaring business.
Aryanism
What is there deeply rooted in Aryanism except heaven, hell and the
differentiating castes?
* * *
My request to the Brahmins is this “if you are not willing to live with us
with unity, go to hell. Atleast keep away from putting hurdles in the path of
our Dravidians unity”.
* * *
Brahmins cannot hope to claim a high and superior status forever. Times
are changing. They have to come down. Then only they could survive with
dignity. Otherwise they will one day be forfeiting their high status. It will not
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 413

be by force. It will be by just laws of the land and the people.
* * *
Ever since Brahmins came here (Tamil Nadu), rarely do we find anyone
asking them why Brahmins? Why Sudras? Even those who asked were
hushed up. Valluvar and Kapilar too stated clearly that there were no high
and low castes by birth. Brahmins could not oppose their views. They simply
abstained from giving publicity to the views expressed by them.
* * *
As there was no open opposition to Aryanism from the beginning, it grew
in stages and made us degraded.
* * *
When we, the Dravidians have the radios and aeroplanes in the
scientifically advanced days, why should we be slaves to the Brahmins or
depend on them for anything?
* * *
The idols, the Vedas which breed ignorance, Upanishads, Manu code,
Baratham and other literature which make the people foolish would be driven
out of our Tamil Nadu borders.
* * *
I have not talked of anything to despise the Brahmins, just because they
are born as Brahmins.
* * *
If we have a girl at home who has attained puberty, some one should
come and ask for alliance. Otherwise the girl will have to remain a virgin
only. But in a Brahmin’s house if there is a girl who has attained puberty the
Brahmin will go from door to door seeking a bridegroom. This is the
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 414

difference between the Aryan and the Dravidian customs.
* * *
The leader of the Congress party is a Brahmin. The leader of the socialists
is a Brahmin. The leader of the communists is a Brahmin. The leader of the
Hindu Maha Sabha is a Brahmin. The leader of R.S.S is a Brahmin. The
leader of the Trade Union is a Brahmin. The President of India is a Brahmin.
They are all one in the heart of hearts.
* * *
Because our ladies mostly attend Kalatshepams, (Religious discourses)
they have fallen prey to the superstitions, blind beliefs, and immorality by the
false and fictitious propaganda of the Brahmins.
* * *
I want the Brahmins to realise that the Dravidian people today are very
much hating those who cunningly cheated them with absurdities. They are
now aware of the particular community making a living by spreading the
foolishness. People have begun to hate God, religion, caste, mythologies
(puranas) and so on. Those who still believe the Brahmins should take a
serious note of the changing times and start leading an awakened life.
* * *
If one is to be considered high, some one should show some just reason.
Brahmin calls himself high and superior. In what respects is he superior to
others? Are there not Brahmins who are connected with all the trades in the
world good and bad? Do we not see them eating all things as others?
* * *
There should be no differentiation amongst the people. All should be
treated as equals. On this basis the Brahmin must give up his false prestige, in
the interest of the society. I say that the blind beliefs should be given up. If
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 415

the newspapers “Hindu” and the “Swadesamitran” carry on false propaganda
that I am communal, I am not responsible for that.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 416

THE REVOLUTIONARY SAYINGSOFPERIYAR
1. About Myself
I express, plainly and openly, thoughts which occur to meand which strike
me as right. This may embarrass a few; to some this may be distasteful; and a
few others may even be irritated; however, all that I utter are proven truths
and not lies.
It is my considered opinion that kings are redundant in the present-day world,
and that they are demeaning to the self-respect of the people.
I am also one who says that besides kings, rich men, landed aristocracy,
businessmen, and capitalists are groups that should be eliminated, as they are
parasites on men.
Not that all the people of the world should act according to my wish, but that
come what may, surely in politics and in public life, humane justice alone,
and not justice as prescribed by any epoch or religion, should be imposed;
such is my desire.
I shall never be a party to doing anything by instigating others from behind.
Even if I am thus inclined by any chance, I have not the capacity to do so.
To act from behind, certain means and machinery are required. Because I
lack these, I have had not only to remain a servant of society throughout my
life, but also to give expression to my views candidly, and to censure, where
necessary, without fear or favour.
As far as I am concerned, I was never a partyman. I have always been a man
of principles.
In my public life, after I reached my years of discretion, I always volunteered
to support the government of Non-Brahmins. In this, I did not see any dignity
or indignity.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 417

I had my strong conviction even from 1925 that superstition must be
eradicated and that people should be turned into rationalists.
Till the end of my life, I shall never canvass for a vote. I shall not even expect
a word of praise from any quarter.
I am one who has been ostracized by corrupt, stupid and selfish people, in the
name of politics and religion. I have suffered pain and privation; sacrificed
my self-esteem; and rejected a place in the ministry.
Indeed, it was my family and I who volunteered for the first time in India to
court imprisonment for the sake of the freedom we cherish so dearly today.
I have supported whichever political party has done good to the society to
which I belong and opposed those that have done ill. I have not supported any
party merely because it is in power.
I serve only because I wish that our people (Dravidians) and society should
progress like the people of other lands. In the best interest of society,
therefore, I support those capable of doing good to our people, and those
administrators who work for our social betterment.
When a peace-conference was convened for the suspension of the Civil
Disobedience Movement, Sankaran Nair requested Gandhiji to stop picketing
toddy shops and talk peace. Afterwards, Gandhiji remarked: “Stopping the
picketing of toddy shops is not in my hands. It is in the hands of E.V.
Ramaswamy's wife and sister in Tamil Nadu”. Thus my family and I courted
imprisonment for the sake of Gandhiji's principles.
I am under no necessity to permanently support anyone for gaining selfish
ends. I see no wrong at all in supporting that person who does good to us,
who strives for the removal of our social degradation even if he is a foreigner.
I have no (political) heirs. My principles and ideas are my heirs. Heirs should
evolve on their own.
Even if I were to lead a life in hell, I would deem it better than the earthly
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 418

one, if I were regarded there as a human being.
Even if I were to live in a place where I would have to experience much
worse sufferings than those of a hellish life, I would consider it a happier life
than this mean, caste-ridden existence, if only I were respected as a man
there.
Gandhiji said: “If the Untouchables (lowest caste people) are prevented from
drawing water from a well, let separate well be dug for them; if they are not
allowed into the temple, let separate temples be built for them”. I said then:
“If no amends are made for the abject humiliation that they cannot draw
water from a well, let them there die of thirst. That they must be freed from
this degradation is more important than the provision of water to save their
lives.”
For how long are we still to remain ‘Sudras’ (Sons of prostitutes or
concobines) and allow our progeny also to be ‘Sudras’, in this world? Should
we not do something to attain human dignity, devoid of our ills, atleast in this
generation, during this age of science and scientific freedom? Is there a
nobler deed than this for us? It is for this reason that I have dedicated the
whole of my life for this cause; and not out of any perversity or spite.
Some say that eradication of caste is communalism and hatred for the high-
castes. Are we communalists? Have we ever harmed a single Brahmin or set
fire to a Brahmin locality? An appeal for the abolition of caste is not to be
considered class-hatred.
In our country, those that endeavour class to put an end to the ills of caste are
like those that administer medicine for malaria; they cannot prevent the
incidence of the disease in others. But I am like a doctor who prevents it by
destroying the malaria causing mosquitoes in the stagnant waters.
The oppressed and backward people-toilers, coolies, poor men-who are
treated like animals, are an eye-sore to me. This sorry sight can be removed
only by their being made equal among men.
Though I am more than sixty years of age, my feelings are not as old, only
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 419

because of my contact with the young. To do nothing is something my mind
is never inclined to. Rest and boredom are suicide to me.
People all over the world should unite. They should have an existence that
does no harm to other beings. Means must be found for a peaceful life, free
from envy, anxiety, deceit, hatred and sorrow. This is my cherished wish.
I am aware that my capacity is limited. But my love for humanity is
boundless. That is why I am impelled to action and utterance beyond my
position and capacity.
You conduct yourselves according to what you deem proper, after an inquiry
aided by reason. This is what I call reform.
Do not think I am selfless. I am a very avaricious person. My desire and
selfishness are boundless; I consider the welfare of the Dravidian society as
my own welfare; and I toil solely for that ‘Selfishness’
Justice, and nothing else, is my justification.
All must die ultimately. Should one waste this life for the sake of dying? It is
enough if I have bare means of sustenance; I shall use everything else for
others.
Are my ideas admired or rejected? Are they considered lofty or low? I do not
bother. My life's aim is that my views, however bitter they are to others,
should only express truth.
From my tenth year onwards, (as far as I can remember), I have been an
atheist. I have no faith in caste or rituals. In matters of public conduct, I am
aware that others should not be pained or troubled; apart from this, I have
little regard for proper conduct. Even though I am covetous of money and
materials, I have earned them only through my resourcefulness and not by
pecuniary dishonesty or by betrayal of trust.
I have never attempted to cheat anyone, even in the smallest matter. Even
though I may have told lies in business deals, I have not told lies in pubic-
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 420

life, or consciously expressed opposing views.
Why should a person like me carry enmity or ill-will to a particular
community? I am one who ardently wishes to bring our land and society on a
par with the character and culture of England. I consider, rightly or wrongly,
that the Brahmin community is a stumbling block to this.
Should not the Brahmins then demonstrate that such is not the case? In fact, if
only I had the support of the Brahmins, I would have found it possible to a
large extent to bring about the advancement of our country.
I am one who lives just to see that the whole world is suffused with atheistic
rationality.
My only goal is the welfare of the people.
I am no passionate seeker after power. Only, I have a fierce social
consciousness. For the sake of the welfare of society, I am prepared in the
days to come to give up anything or do anything.
I devote myself to service only for the reason that our people should gain in
knowledge and live on a par with the peoples of the world.
With me, there is never anything like ‘my money’. As I had endowed all my
money and property in the name of the SELF-RESPECT Movement when I
entered public service, I do everything, even eating, from out of the funds of
the Movement. It is your money, and not mine at all, that I donated to a
College, and a Hospital. After finding out what was appropriate for the public
good, I spent out of the Movement's General Fund.
If I know that any individual is devoted to Tamil, I shall certainly become a
slave to him. If he is cultured, I shall indeed be his bosom-friend. Otherwise,
I would look upon him as a non-entity.
I, E.V. Ramaswamy, have taken upon myself the task of reforming Dravidian
society so that it shall be comparable to other societies of the world, in
esteem and enlightenment, and I am solely devoted to that service.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 421

Whether I am competent to do that service or not, I have taken the task upon
myself because no one else in the country has come forward to do so.
Because I configure plans and principles on the basis of reason and because I
have no other attachments, I consider myself qualified to do that service. For
one who does social service, this will do, I believe.
Even as a pipe must needs to be played, and a drum beaten, I must perforce
talk or lecture, as long as I have a throat and a voice.
Our people seem to take pride in cherishing antiquity. But I am one who
detests this craze for tradition. This is why I am hated by many. But I am
confident that those who know will soon come to my side.
I consider myself a rationalist. I am not averse to anything that is in tune with
reason and I am not in agreement with anything that is irrational. This sums
up my attitude.
I believe that conducting oneself properly and adhering to honesty in
everything without concealing truth, gives one a unique strength.
I do not cite any precedent to explain my principles and utterances. The effort
of those that run after what others have said does not accord with good sense.
I may point out that my ideas are supported by others, but I should not
indicate that such persons have said thus and thus, and therefore I also say,
after them.
Rationalist that I am, I have no attachment whatsoever to God, religion,
literature or language. I shall talk only of that which is acceptable to
intelligence; that which does good to people, and that which enlightens them.
Some even asked me: ‘You are a Kannadia; how can you be a leader of
Tamils? I countered: ‘Dear fellow! No Tamil has qualified himself to lead!
This is because one Tamil does by no means tolerate the rise of another Tamil
to a position of leadership’.
I am aware that I am friendly with people owing only to a Movement, and not
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 422

because of other worldly ties. I say so because, in many areas, by expressing
opposing views, I swim against the current of popular opinion. This is the
fate of all those that conduct themselves thus.
My life is like a shorn-off tree. If a fruit-bearing tree, it must be protected
from others throwing stones at it. But I do not think of so protecting my self.
As I do not care for anything, I do not fear anyone; nor do I desire to gain
favours from anyone.
As regards speech, some deliver it with an eye for elegance; some for
ornateness; some others to make people laugh or to win their approbation; a
few others speak just to exhibit their learning; and some to express their
ideas. I belong to the last category.
Give a fair hearing and thought to all that I say. If it is acceptable to your
intelligence, follow it accordingly; otherwise, reject it. I shall not compel to
do what I say, by telling you that I am an incarnation of God, or that God
speaks to you from within me, or that I am a leader.
Even as a mother, bound by natural instincts, tends all her offspring, to give
them an equal experience, so it is with me as regards my relationship with
people. Also, as the same mother tries to feed her lean and weak child with
more food than what she offers the rest of her children, to make him equal to
them, so I show greater sympathy to the weak and the backward; and
likewise I exhibit my feelings towards Brahmins and the other communities.
I am an ascetic. To an ascetic, an emperor is chaff, it is said. To me not only
the emperor, but, so are God, scriptures, caste and politics; nay, I consider
them the filtered essence of cant and hypocrisy.
2. You Decide for Yourselves
Decide for yourselves as to what you should think ofthose who say there is
God, that He is the Preserver of Justice and that He is the Protector of All,
even after seeing that the practice of Untouchability, in the form of man being
banned from human sight and contact, from walking in the streets, from
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 423

entering the temples and from drawing water from a tank, is rampant in a
land and yet that land (India) is spared from being razed by an earthquake,
burnt by the fiery lava of a volcano, engulfed in a deluge from the ocean,
submerged in the chasm of the earth, or fragmented by a thunder-storm.
3. Rationalism
Why is it that a foreigner is required to find out theheight of the Mountain
Himalayas, while we claim to have discovered the Seven Worlds, above and
the Seven more below? Why is it that when we claim to have the ability to
expound Lord Nataraja's Cosmic Dance, the construction of this simple
loudspeaker in front of us is an enigma? We should really contemplate on
these aspects. You should come forward to use reason to enlarge your general
knowledge.
Man is considered superior to other beings in this world, because he has
limitless capacity for knowledge. People in other lands have advanced
greatly, utilizing this knowledge. But our countrymen owing to lack of use of
this knowledge, are abjectly deteriorating. Stating that ours is a land of
enlightenment, we build tanks and temples; in other countries, men fly in
space and amaze the whole world.
In other lands, knowledge alone is respected and trusted and held as the basis
of everything. But in this country, men believe only in rituals and
ceremonies, in god, in religion and such other rubbish.
Knowledge, born of rationalism, is real wisdom. Can mere bookish lore
become knowledge? Can one become a genius through learning by rote?
Why is it that educated persons endowed with the highest mental gifts-degree
holders in general and science degree holders in particular-believe that a mere
stone is a God and prostrate before it? Why do great savants and specialists in
science anoint themselves with turbid water in order to expiate their sins? Is
there any connection between the science they have learnt and the anointing
mixture consisting of cow's-dung and urine?
The aeroplane is referred to in Ramayana and Mahabharata, but as driven by
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 424

the power of magic. The aeroplane is explained in English literature, but it
flies by mechanical power. What do we need now? Mechanical or magical
energy?
Let us bring up two children of the same parents-one in England and the
other, in our country. He who is reared in England will look at everything
from a scientific point of view, and the other will consider everything from a
religious point of view.
The reason for the present chaos and deterioration in our country is that we
have been hindered from enquiry and cogitation and repressed from the use
of rationality.
In whatever manner you surmise God and with whatever good intentions you
found a religion, the results are all the same. A reformist God and a rational
religion cannot achieve anything more than a superstitious God and a blind
religion.
Just as machines, invented for the social good of man, to give him added
advantage and to save him labour and time, are under the control of the
capitalists- to keep the worker and the labourer in hunger - so reason that is to
serve for the excellence, satisfaction and comfort of man has been enslaved
by a few, to cause people pain, poverty and anxiety.
Activities that are not consonant with rational understanding, intellectual
enquiry and human needs should not be carried on in the name of custom,
traditions, God, religion, caste and class, or in any other name.
Man possesses reason. It is given to him for enquiry, not for blind animalism.
It is by abusing reason that man has brought himself into a lot of trouble. He
has created God, as an antidote to his troubles.
Uncertainties in life, dissatisfaction owing to want, and selfish competition
among individuals, if these exist in a country, then it is evident that her
people do not have full powers of reason. In a country where people live
freely and in contentment, it is clear that reason rules there.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 425

Man believes that he must gather wealth for his children who have the gift of
reason, even by cheating his own society. But animals and birds do not save
anything for their offspring who do not have the gift of reason; in fact they
bite, peck and chase them away when the time comes for them to be on their
own. They do not care for them or even remember them afterwards.
Within a span of two thousand years, people had lost the prerogative of using
their own intelligence. Knowledge did not increase, and society did not
improve, because men did not have the right to question the why and the
wherefore of things; they just listened to whatever the literates said of what
was written down. They were suppresed by being told that thinking, arguing
and doubting were sins.
Man does not go by what his own intelligence tells him, but by God, Saint,
Sage and Avatars (incarnations).
Anything that is not in tune with reason and self-respect must be eschewd.
If superstition is removed and religion is viewed in the light of reason, no
religion will survive.
If greed is put an end to, no man will ever believe what is contrary to his
intelligence and experience.
I do not know for how many centuries our people have to wait for attaining
reason and maturity. I have to believe that Tamil Nadu will have no salvation
unless she is razed to her foundation by a catastrophic deluge or storm, a
flood or an earthquake, and then renewed.
Those who respect reason should not hastily believe what is heard; what is
written down; what appears to be happening over a long time; what is
followed by many; or what is said by God, or a Great Soul. Anything that
excites our wonder should not be immediately believed as divine or
miraculous. In every circumstance, we must be prepared to think freely,
rationally and impartially.
It is through rationality that man's longevity has been increased and his
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 426

mortality rate has been significantly reduced.
One who possesses knowledge, and is aware of Nature, is free from sorrow.
There is pain when an injection is administered for good health; but in spite
of pain, one tolerates it in expectation of the cure. That is the nature of
knowledge.
It is the power of thinking that distinguishes man from animals and birds. It is
because of this that these, though much stronger than man, are enslaved by
him.
It is the power of reasoning, more than any other power in man, that makes
him superior to all other beings. Therefore, we can say that in proportion to
the measure of its use does he conduct himself with human qualities.
He who does not use his reason is only an animal.
Because we have been constantly told and compelled to believe that it is a sin
to think rationally, or to inquire into a matter thus, we are now unable to
analyse any matter. If only we turn round with courage, we can progress fast.
Who is a barbarian? He that has no brains; he that has no reason; he that does
not think, despite possessing thought and reason; and he that blames without
thinking; these I consider barbarians.
Following superstitious beliefs, without rational thinking, has ushered in the
condition of the worker becoming the vassel, and the sluggard becoming the
lord.
In the land of the naked, he that covers himself is deemed mad! Similarly, is
it surprising that in the land of barbarians, he that thinks-the rationalist-
appears as mad?
Whatever is done, whatever the event, and the matter, we should see
beforehand whether they are consonant with the why and wherefore of
things, with experience, enquiry and intelligence. Only then will knowledge
grow. Instead, if custom, tradition and ancestral practice are followed, only
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 427

stupidity will grow and not intelligence.
Do not follow anything just because some one else has said it. Do not
slavishly sell your conscience to others. Analyse and inquire into every thing.
You are prepared to expend your money and dignity and give up your liberty
and equality to any extent. But you are hesitant to use your reason even to a
small extent. Why do you show such economy only in this? If this situation
continues, when are we to become men?
Firstly, we should all become men, before we become Ministers, Chief
Ministers, Governors, Governor Generals or Mahathmas (Supreme soul). first
of all, reason should grow, and the innate thought process should flourish, to
enable us to be men.
Even when we buy a saree we buy it after a good deal of thought as to
whether the saree bought before from the same shop has served well and
whether the shop keeper is honest. We who use our reason for such trivial
matters, fail to use it in important affairs. So we get quite deceived. My first
duty, therefore, is to stress the necessity of reason.
What we need today is the growth of knowledge in order to advance in every
field. Knowledge should have its sway.
What man needs today is not money, or shelter or transportation, but the
growth of intelligence. We should compete more for acquiring knowledge
than for earning any money.
Your own consciousness rules you; not God; or men of religion. Without
straightaway accepting what I say, accept only what appears to be right to
your reason, and reject the rest.
Reason is the life-blood of man. Among all creatures, only man possesses
reason. The lower he is in the exercise of this faculty, comparably, the more
of a barbarian he is. He attains maturity, consonant with the clarity he
achieves through reason.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 428

Rationality is the acute capacity of thinking.
Man should contemplate on anything, not by following the path of belief, but
that of reason. He should see whether the object of his contemplation stands
the test of inquiry. Only then he rises to human stature from a primitive state.
Your guide is your own intelligence. Use it well. Avoid being suspicious of
others. Because your own reason has been circumscribed, the cultivation of
knowledge is stultified. What your fore fathers have said are neither varieties
nor wonders. Leave those to them; without relation to these, endeavour
youself to discover and to do. Give priority to knowledge.
Of all the creatures in the world, man alone possesses reason and intelligence.
If he uses them, he can achieve great deeds.
Analysing everything with courage and intelligence, according to the
occasion and need, rejecting what should be rejected, contributing what
should be contributed, to reform, without fearing change: this is the inevitable
duty of rationality.
4. Self Respect
We are fit to think of ‘self-respect’ only when the notionof superior and
inferior caste is banished from our land.
Religion, politics, economics and social life in India are based only on class
distinctions. That is why some live high and many are constrained to live low
in society. People have also lost their sense of self-respect.
He who does not care for dignity, is no better than a prostitute, however
highly educated he is. His education will only endanger those who care for
dignity.
If any one wishes to serve society, on the basis of humanism, what he should
do first is to make people think and conduct themselves rationally.
Because man has been compelled to have faith and trust in a mysterious God,
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 429

he is now made to believe all the lies about Him.
Man does not grow by merely accepting whatever others have said. However,
do listen to others, but later think with the help of your reason. Accept and try
to follow what appears right to you.
The aim of a genuine Self-respect Movement is to change whatever appears
to be adverse to man's feelings of self-respect.
That which enslaves you to customs of the world, to orthodoxy, to the rigours
of religion, contrary to your rationality and awareness of truths of experience,
is what I shall describe as antagonistic to self-respect.
This all-important awareness of self-respect based on feelings of dignity and
indignity, may be deemed man's birth-right, as the word ‘man’ is itself a word
based on dignity. Therefore, he who is called ‘man’ embodies dignity in
himself, and only through his right to this dignity, reveals his human
qualities. That is why self-esteem is his birth-right.
Man must remove by himself his feelings of inferiority, the feeling that he is
lesser born than other beings, and attain self-confidence and self-respect.
If people imbibe feelings of genuine self-respect, it will automatically set
right politics, nationalism and also theology.
It is not possible that legislation and the process of franchise by themselves
can bring about reformation and self-respect.
In Western countries, self-esteem is needed only in the sphere of economics.
But we need it in religion, society, education, knowledge, research,
handicrafts, politics, economics and in several other fields.
What our people need now is not only education, but also awareness and self-
respect. Feeling of self-respect, the ability to reason out anything, and the
spirit of enquiry are what we need most today.
Man must hold his personal respect and dignity as precious as his life.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 430

We can confront a thousand self-respecting people. But it is a difficult task to
grapple with one who is without self-respect.
5. Social Reform
Books that advocate communal discreminations andcomplexes of superiority
and inferiority should be prohibited from being read. If read, they should be
confiscated.
Social reform cannot stand apart from politics, nor can politics stand apart
from social reform. Politics exists only for human society. Every political
activity is only for social good. Constitutional law and defence are made only
for society and in accordance with social good.
Offering alms and receiving alms should be deemed illegal, if human society
should prosper without hindrance. Only then will man be able to live in self-
respect.
The evils of religion, communalism, tradition and orthodoxy can never be
eradicated from our land and society, unless the Government creates what
may be called a ‘Department for Defeating Superstitious Beliefs’ and through
it facilitates propaganda against these evils in schools and public places and
among students and the people.
The world today has no place for the meek, the poor, the innocent and the
honest. Are we to wait for an opportune time to mend this condition?
It is important that communal discriminations, in the name of temple, are
eradicated, and that all the properties held in the name of temples are utilized
for the welfare of the people.
In many matters, without being harmed and demeaned by others, we have
subjected ourselves to a debasement and a depressed condition. Our society
will never change, without our reforming ourselves, without a change of heart
among us.
History bears out that the threat of power has never stopped any reform.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 431

Social changes will always occur. People also will undergo social change.
Tentative and superficial changes here and there in the name of social reform,
will not bear fruit. The present social set-up should be destroyed at its very
base, and a new social order, free from caste and class, should be created.
Though we have progressed and changed in the field of politics, we are still
backward in the social field. This condition should change.
Ours is an obstinate society. Even after more than three-fourths of the people
of the world have progressed, our society is still in a backward and barbaric
stage, adamantly following customs of yore, because they have been adopted
for a long time by its forefathers.
Our society consists of many castes, religions and sects. The human and
social discreminations that exist in our country should be put an end to.
Without considering that someone else will bring about this change, each one
of us should do something for our society.
Whomsoever I love or hate, my principle is the same. That is, the educated,
the rich and the administrators should not suck the blood of the poor.
Those who pretend to serve the cause of social good for their selfish ends,
without caring even a little for our society, are enemies of the Tamils, even if
they are called themselves Tamils.
In the village where you reside, some fifty people are affected by a water-
borne disease and you discover that the well in the village contains the
carrier-germs. The well should be cleaned by pumping out the water
completely. If the springs in the well are themselves infected, then they
should also be closed and a new well dug. If one insists on drinking the same
infected water, then there is no escape for him from that disease. I am
engaged in that task of stopping those springs in the well.
The proper task of social reform is to remove poverty from society and to
ensure that people do not sell their conscience to make a living.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 432

Reforms should be so brought about as to teach people good conduct, to
enlarge knowledge, to cultivate compassion and charity to living beings, and
to infuse in them a growing awareness of equality and self-respect.
To discard what is unwanted and to retain what is needed, is what reform
means.
Those who undertake reform should not be subjected to any control. The real
path to reform is to break all the shackles that impede change.
Those who are timid and fearful that others would not respect them, that they
would be ridiculed, that there would be growing opposition to them, and that
they would lose the sympathy of the world, can never bring about genuine
reforms. No reforms, undertaken by people of these qualities, will ever bear
fruit.
The reformer's real duty is to think of the source of the deterioration and to
seek measures to ensure that such deterioration never occurs again in the
generations to come.
No individual who came forward to achieve social reform on the basis of
religion has ever succeeded even to a small extent.
If the educated, the rich and the administrators are opposed to the welfare of
the toiling people and to their enjoying all the fruits of their labour, then they
are only fit to disappear from the face of the earth.
Without an upheaval in our attitude to religion, caste, customs, traditions,
orthodoxies, God, and commandments, which are the bases of social tyranny,
no political reform will be of any use to the ordinary folk.
Is it necessary that there should be divisions of high (Brahmins) and low
(Panchamas) castes in society? If it is said that God is responsible for this,
should those of the lowly castes (Panchamas and Sudras) worship Him?
6. Science
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 433

If man objects to the use of machines, then it is evident,he is against the
expansion of knowledge.
Look at the enormous change in our life today. Our comforts in daily life
have vastly improved. Formerly, we had only the bullockcart. Now we have
such modern comforts as the locomotive, the motor car, and the aeroplane.
We struck flints to make a fire, but now, the pressing of a button makes a
thousand electric lights burn. Our people's understanding , despite so much
change in life, remains just as it was a thousand years ago!
Science exhibitions feature many modern flowerings of the imagination.
Several new inventions, conducive to life's comfort, would be displayed
there. Sensitive instruments, obtained from many countries, would find a
place at the exhibition and comes out at the other, would have increased his
knowledge in all fields. He sees and enjoys the world's scientific
advancement and attains clarity of understanding. He gets an opportunity to
be aware of the many intricacies of research. He has the pleasure of seeing a
number of wonderful equipments. In fine, within a few hours, he derives
from that exhibition a maturity of knowledge that he would have to spend
years at a University to acquire.
Even those, who some time ago believed all the stories about God, that is,
who believed that a divine power exists, have now come to be so ashamed of
their own belief, that hiding their ignorance, they are now struggling hard to
prove those stories as scientifically true.
He who first created fire with the help of flints was the ‘Edison’ of those
days. Thereafter, we advanced step by step and we now have fire through
electricity. Thus, change is natural and inevitable, and no one can stop it.
A big change should come about in our country on the food front. We must
certainly discover a chemical product as a substitute for rice. We first used
steam power, with the help of fire, to drive an engine. Then, according to the
changing needs of our time, we utilized kerosene, crude oil, petrol and
electricity for power. In a like manner, the human engine, without being
driven by a huge intake of food, can be activated by and made to subsist on
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 434

some fine source of energy, similar to electricity.
Hereafter, even human birth will be rare. Similarly death rate also will
decrease. Man can easily live for a hundred years. On an average, no one will
have more than two children. There will be no correlation between sexual
relationship and child-birth.
7. Education
The education that man needs is only to make him fitto live his life in
freedom.
To spread education to the masses is as difficult an effort as spreading
communism in our country of India.
The people of a land should first of all be educated if they are to seek
progress, to lead a good and cultured life and to gain a proper understanding
in the spheres of politics, economics and industry.
Only education, self-respect and rational qualities will uplift the down-
trodden.
Teachers should first teach the students what self-respect is; and what
courage, dignity and equality are. Students should be taught to love people.
It is as dangerous for people to support scriptural scholars (pundits) as using a
burning stick to scratch an itching scalp; they have no alternative means of
livelihood; and therefore we should be ever watchful in our contact with
these pundits.
If teachers are to be useful, they should be capable of free thinking to some
extent at least, and also have some degree of respect for reason.
Teachers, parents, officers-all should try to foster good conduct, discipline,
fairness and honesty among students.
Great teachers, instead of converting young men into men of religion, should
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 435

try hard to make them men of knowledge.
Why should any one, in the name of caste, be considered lowly or be made to
do a mean job? If all in the country are given education, can there exist a
caste for doing mean work? Is it not because of lack of education that those
people are constrained to do contemptible work and are considered lowly?
Just as it is fair to provide the necessities of food, clothes and shelter to those
who are without these, so it is fair to provide education to those who do not
have it.
It is not temples that we need today, but schools. Knowledge can bring about
many miracles. Therefore, we do need today schools that will be the basis for
imparting knowledge.
Our educational system should change. A trade should be learnt along with
academic study. Even if one discontinues his studies in any class, he should
be able to eke out a living by a trade. People should be familiar with some
trade.
Schools, promote literacy and knowledge in a particular field. But the library
fosters awareness of general knowledge in all spheres.
Schools and institutions of higher learning will enlarge knowledge only to a
certain extent. whoever administers them, they are subject to rules and
regulations.
The benefit of learning cannot be fully derived from these kinds of
institutions. Only libraries can compensate for this drawback.
In fine, libraries are indeed a University.
It is essential that education in our country should have two cardinal aims.
Firstly, education should foster rationality and feelings of self respect.
Secondly it should be conducive to a better life through a job or trade.
What is education for? For knowledge. And what is knowledge for? To
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 436

enable man to live humanely, so that he lives to serve his fellowmen, in
honour and without causing hardship to others.
Care should be taken first of all in inculcating discipline among pupils at
school. That alone is important. Next only is education. How to conduct
oneself properly is what should be taught first. Good conduct alone makes
one a cultured man in later life.
If I were the country's administrator, I would exact heavy taxes in order to
develop it on the right lines. The poor spend whatever is given to them. So,
instead of giving them money, their children can be educated out of tax
revenue.
Care should be taken to see that books alluding to bad conduct, superstition
and social ills do not enter schools or politics.
Edit the poems of Bharathidasan, and prescribe them as texts, as suited to
each class at school. Knowledge that can normally be gained in five years can
be had in a year, by reading them.
Many think that only seeing God and seeking salvation is enlightenment or
knowledge. As this thought is fed from childhood, the student remains ever
confused.
The great traits students should follow are: proper conduct, honesty, fairness,
doing good to others and not being a hindrance to others. These are for us
higher than God.
Discipline alone is very important to children. Fostering it is our paramount
duty.
Boys and girls at school should not think it a privilege to wear fashionable
attire or costly jewellery, but should wear only simple clothes. At seats of
learing where all pupils mix, there should be no discriminations.
Students should not waste their school-life, as it is very , very precious. Their
mind should not be distracted by any event outside. Particularly, students
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 437

should not participate in agitations.
Boys and girls ruin their lives by buying and reading obscene books. They
should buy and read books of profound thought and knowledge and imbibe
the spirit of inquiry.
First of all, students should be obedient to teachers. Next they should learn
discipline. Next only come the lessons at school.
8. The Tamil Language
The love of one's tongue is the foremost of all loves that are required of the
people born in our land. He that has no love for his tongue certainly has no
love for his land. A nation functions on the basis of the love for one's
language. So it is my prayer that Tamil's love for their mother-tongue should
grow.
I affirm again and again that the love of the mother-tongue is a must for those
born in Tamil Nadu. The Bengalis love Bengali. The Maharashtrians love the
Marathi language. The Andhras love the Telugu language. But the Tamils
have no love for the Tamil-tongue. The Tamils will never progress unless
they bestow love on their mother-tongue.
If I love Tamil, it is not merely because it is the mother-tongue or the
language of the Tamil Nadu State. Nor am I attached to Tamil by reason of its
uniqueness or its antiquity or its being the language that Lord Shiva spoke or
its being the creation of Sage Agasthya. I can love a thing only for its innate
goodness and the benefits that may flow from it. I do not cherish a thing
merely because it happens to be mine, whether it be my language, my land, or
my religion, or because I claim what is mine to be hallowed by antiquity.
If I love Tamil, it is because I am aware of the advantages I expect through it
and the measure of loss that will occur by the absence of it.
If I consider that my county will not serve my ideals, will not help to foster
them, I shall forthwith quit it. Similarly, if the language is not conducive to
my ideals, or to the advancement of my people, or to their living with self-
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 438

respect, I will promptly discard it and follow what is useful.
As I am aware of the disadvantages of another language being imposed on
our country, I am intolearnt of it and oppose it, I do not resist it merely
because it is new or it belongs to another land.
It is my opinion that the Tamil Language is capable of contributing to the
progress and freedom of the people in all fields, and will be conducive to a
life of dignity and reason. However, some may ask whether all such
resources are available in Tamil. Even if all these qualities are not found, I
am aware that Tamil has arts, customs, traditions, and an appropriate
vocabulary, which can contribute to a greater advancement than most other
Indian languages. Therefore, any other language that is likely to cause
disadvantage to Tamil is unwelcome.
Tamil, Telugu, Malayalam and Kannada are of Tamil origin only. The Tamil
that is spoken in Malabar is called Malayalam; the Tamil that is spoken in
Karnataka becomes Kannada; and the Tamil that is spoken in the regions of
Andhra becomes Telugu. All the four speak only Tamil.
Some scholars consider that Tamil, Telugu, Malayalam and Kannada came
from the same tongue, that is, they are the offspring of the same mother. This
is only a deception according to me. There is only one Dravidian tongue, and
she is Tamil. And we call her by four different names. Because she is spoken
in four different regions, she has four different names. It is only Tamil that is
spoken in these four regions.
Writing in Tamil about the Arts which are useful to the people in their life
and which foster knowledge, talent and courage, and propagating them
among the masses, thereby enlightening the people and enriching the
language; this alone can be regarded as zeal for Tamil.
9. TAMIL Alphabet Reform
In writings and publications of 70 or 80 years ago, thevowel '<' (i:), indicated
today as ‘<’,was a cursive and looped representation of the short form, ' ï' (i:).
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 439

In stone inscriptions of 400 or 500 years ago, many Tamil letters are found in
other shapes.
As a matter of necessity and advantage to cope with the printing technology,
it is sensible now to change a few letters, reduce the number of letters, and
alter a few signs.
The older and the more divine a language and its letters are said to be, they,
in truth, need reform.
Because of changes brought about by means of modern transport and
international contact, and because of happenings that have attracted words
and products from many countries, a number of foreign words and their
pronunciations have been assimilated into Tamil quite easily. The Tamil
language and its alphabets are woefully inadequate and awkward, for the
pronunciation and writing of these words. Therefore it becomes necessary
that a few letters are taken from other languages. If we fight shy of doing
that, we should at least create some new letters.
Just as some compound characters have separate signs to indicate their length
as in 'fh', 'nf', (ka; ke;), why should not other compound characters like '»', 'Ñ
', F, T, (ki, ki:, ku, ku:) (indicated integrally as of now), also have separate
signs? This indeed requires consideration.
It has been my opinion for a long time that the vowel-sounds ‘I’, '#' ‘xs ’ (ai,
au) are not required in Tamil. Compound characters in Tamil which require
the addition of this sound in the shape of ‘i' can be obtained by the use of ‘Œ’
(y), at the end.
Changing the shapes of letters, creating new symbols and adding new letters
and similarly, dropping those that are redundant, are quite essential.
The glory and excellence of a language and its script depend on how easily
they can be understood or learnt and on nothing else.
If one is an admirer of the Tamils, he is considered a traitor, communalist and
a hater of Brahmins. Can there be a greater instance than this for the sorry
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 440

state of the Tamils? No lover of Tamil attempts to bring about even a small
change in Tamil Orthography. Even if someone tries, he has no support.
Whoever did try to make Tamil Orthodgraphy adequate and easy, to suit
present day conditions?
The Tamil Alphabet looks primitive! How many loops! How many dashes!
How many upward turns? How many downward turns! Such cumbersome
orthography in the present day! Do we need so many letters today? Why do
we need 216 letters? The Englishman does wonders and has only 26 letters.
And he turns the whole world round with just 26 letters.
10. Literature
A literature that concerns itself with knowledge ofNature, which is common
to all, and is far removed from religion and God, and a literature that is to do
with irrefutable science-only by these can a language and its letters be
enriched and only by these can people become enlightened.
The importance of a book depends only on its measure of usefulness and not
on its creator or on its divine quality and wonderful nature or on its literary or
grammatical dimensions.
Literature should nurture culture and inculcate noble qualities in the people.
What is literature for? How should literature be? What can be called
literature? Why should it exist? My view is that it should not only help man
to live, but also be conducive to the progress of society with rationalism.
Our thoughts of a literary renaissance should always centre themselves on the
removal of superstition, meanness, indignity and ignorance.
11. The THiruKkural
People praise the Thirukural but in practice they cherishthe Gita which is
directly opposed to it!
Valluvar's Kural is impelled by ideas that are in accordance with practical
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 441

knowledge and in tune with Nature and Science.
Those who study the Kural deeply will certainly attain a consciousness of
self-respect. Knowledge of politics, knowledge of society and knowledge of
economics are all embedded in it.
The Thirukural is a Tamil literary work that is so written as to teach society
noble traits and proper conduct by pointing to a moral path and fostering
ethical principles. That is why peoples of all religion, all over the world,
adore the Kural as their work, or as one that agrees with the principles of their
religion.
It is my firm conviction that the Kural was especially created to demonstrate
that the arts, culture, ethics and conduct of the Tamils were vastly different
from and antithetical to those of the Aryans.
Only because we regard Valluvar as a great guiding man, who strove for the
removal of the ills of the people so that human qualities could be nurtured,
we accept his Kural. We do not accept it as divine utterance or inspired
Apocalypse (the end of the world).
It is better to read ten Kurals for knowledge, than a hundred songs of Kamba
Ramayana or two hundred songs of Periapurana, or Kandapurana.
If any one asks you what your religion is, say that you belong to the
‘Valluvar Religion’ and if you are asked what your moral code is, say that it
is the Kural. The Kural is so irrefutable that no conservative or crafty person
will dare to oppose you.
The Thirukural will pave a lofty way for the eradication of superstition and
the enlargement of knowledge. The thoughts of the Kural should be spread
throughout the country. It should be brought about that education means the
learning of the Kural and knowledge means, the awareness of the Kural.
THIRUVALLUVAR the author of the Kural did not accept God, Heaven and
Hell. You could find only Virtue, Wealth and Love in the Kural; ‘Salvation’
and ‘Final Bliss’ are not alluded to by the author.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 442

In the Kural, there is a chapter on invocation to God. But there is no place in
it for principles of idol worship.
Valluvar has invoked God through eight or nine concepts only to show how
man should conduct himself and to make him understand life's ethical
conduct and status.
The Kural is not a devotional book. It is not also a book of theology to reveal
God: nor is it a book of religious doctrines for evangelism. It only teaches
true and egalitarian conduct which is agreeable to all.
He who has intelligence and beholds knowledge as supreme and he who has
the capacity to think and investigate will certainly respect and admire the
Kural, follow it to some extent at least and keep it as his guide.
The Kural embodies in it ethics and practical ways of life, based on
experience.
The Kural is a treasure house of knowledge. It is a work bound by reason.
12. The Arts
Tamil Nadu countenances even those who have theaudacity to declare from
rostrums that it is foolish to demand that Tamil songs should be sung and that
there should be Tamil Music in Tamil Nadu, and who ridicule those who
demand thus.
Songs in good Tamil, bringing out the beauties of Nature, the courage,
compassion and the dignified and egalitarian life of the Tamils, their history,
fairness, code of justice, patriotism, zeal for language, unity and discipline,
should alone be sung.
There are two kinds of dramas. One is music drama and the other is prose-
drama. People prefer only prose-plays.
Our King of humorists, ‘Kalaivanar’ N.S. Krishnan, is a genius in his artiste
profession; however, it should be said, that he is also a great revolutionary in
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 443

the way he carries on his histrionic job. His revolution is comparable indeed
to that of Lenin because he has brought about a big upheaval in play and
story-writing in films and in the field of music.
If the history of the revolution in the world of drama and film is written, the
place of honour should go to N.S.K; otherwise, that history is to be discarded.
The art of drama should be useful to the people. It should not only be free
from stupid and superstitious thoughts, but also be capable of promoting
knowledge and progress.
It is my avowed desire that the world of drama with a view to remaining a
really useful guide to society, as it has not been till now, should help to
convert this world of cruelty and partiality into one of love and fraternal
equality.
It is of little profit to the Tamils, if Literature, Music and Drama do not serve
to foster in them self-respect, to enhance their knowledge and to help them to
attain humane qualities. This applies to arts presented in any language of the
world.
Whatever art it is, it should not be conducive to superstition and improper
behaviour.
13. Co-operation
The aim of co-operation is to serve and help others.
We do spend wastefully, without thought. If we carry on our life through co-
operative means, only one eighth of our present expenditure will be incurred.
What remains can be helpful to seven more persons. If the conditions of our
nation are not changed, it is certain that our life will soon come to ruin.
The earlier principle of individualism should give place to that of co-
operation.
Man, by virtue of his reason, has drawn up many plans for social co-
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 444

operation. These cannot be executed by an individual. Necessarily, there must
be help from others.
If the principle of co-operation is established in a proper manner in our
country, then society will be free from the cares and anxieties of the morrow
and will be enabled to live a life of peace, joy and contentment.
14. Economics
Many crores of rupees are squandered in this countryby way of offering
gratitude to God and bribing Him to gain greater and greater wealth.
Our economic disparities are due to God, religion and dogma. You will ask
me how. If some one is asked how he became rich, he would not say he
earned by his own ability, but by the Grace of God or by the blessings of
Goddess Lakshmi. The pity is that others believe him.
It is of equal importance that people should be freed from social as well as
economic evils.
The desire for and the pre-occupation with seeking wealth consume the entire
life of a person. Competition in earning money, and rivalry in showing off as
a rich person and acquiring comparable influence, sap all the energy of a
person.
If I were a king, even for a short while, I would first of all make a law,
imposing the death sentence for squandering wealth at weddings. I will say
that the wasting of wealth is a major disease that afflicts India.
Those who suffer by spending beyond their income cannot live honestly and
are a menace to the country.
In the present set-up, man can not live quite honestly, without money in hand.
The abject destitution and the greed for lucre are the reasons for a man
becoming a betrayer, a rogue or one who commits breach of trust. Therefore,
if money, earned honestly, even if it is little, is conserved, there is no
necessity to suffer, or to take to wrong ways.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 445

There are no politicians who do not shed tears on the economic condition of
India. If that is true, why then are thousands and tens of thousands are being
allowed to be spent on what are really one-minute ceremonies, such as
marriages contracted on the utterance of some four lines.
Wealth is the common property of the world. All the people have a right to
enjoy it, as their own. They have a common right to it, as long as they live; so
also they have a responsibility to preserve it.
Usury is a cruel business. If another name is to be given to it; it is tyrannous
legalised robbery.
Considering the conditions in the country, I give top priority to the removal
of mean communal discriminations; next comes the removal of economic
disparities.
The budget of the Government is not like that of a family which can plan its
expenditure according to its income. But the Government should assess what
the needs of the people are, arrive at the taxes, and plan accordingly to seek
its income.
Day by day, mankind is going towards a climate in which people are devoid
of the good traits of decent conduct, honesty and a commitment to fairness.
The abolition of the right to property is the only remedy.
It is true to some extent that man is not with-out selfishness and a hankering
for recognition; but to amass wealth as a means for this is not natural.
15. Socialism-Communism
What should be done, if everyone is to have enoughfood?
If none consumes more than what is needed, then, there will be enough food
for all.
All factories and their management should be Governmental, like the
administration of the Posts, the Telegraphs, the Railways and the Public
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 446

Works. Not a single capitalist should exist in the country. No single
individual should be our master.
The principle of communism should come into force in the present day world
if people are to live in peace and contentment, free from worries and
difficulties and from being deceived by each other. In this, there is no place
for luck. But our efforts should not bring about the least of personal suffering
and desolation to the common folk.
Though my aim is to demand economic equality, I believe that coveting other
people's properties is an act that is worse than economic inequality.
Therefore, it is the Government that should divide wealth equitably by Law.
A single person should not have a vast accumulated possession of land. A
time will come when land will be distributed equally to all. If we cannot
bring about the time soon, we should remain as path-finders in this.
If a condition free from tensions and discriminations is to be established, a
pattern of Socialism for all alike should be created. To bring this about, the
right to property should be abolished and property should be held in common.
Capitalism should be destroyed at the roots, if the cares and worries of the
workers are to be put an end to.
The final aim of Communism is to usher in a world-order in which the whole
world is one family; all its peoples are kith and kin; and all the world's
wealth, its joys, comforts and pleasures belong to that family whose members
have an equal share in the property.
The aim of offering succour to the poor is only to help to eradicate poverty
from society, and not to create sluggards, by the offer of alms to one here,
and another there.
16. Character
Those who are guilty of misconduct, fraud and knavery,
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 447

under the guise of public life, should never be spared.
Indeed, drinking liquor is against the law; even more so is receiving bribes.
Those who receive bribes are to be deemed social outcasts, fit to be punished
and detested.
Collective social good conduct, sympathy, honesty gratitude, trust, etc.,
should be prevalent among people. They should volunteer to do good; they
must think good; and oppose evil. They should not rob others, when they are
unguarded, and should conduct themselves especially honestly.
Though there is a lot of advancement in knowledge, human life has vastly
deteriorated. Man should not descend to the level of substituting treachery
and betrayal for love and fair-conduct, or corruption and fraud for honesty!
The first and foremost duty of those who live selflessly is to preach in favour
of character, and for the extermination of dishonesty and treachery.
Wants and needs must be lessened for fostering genuine good conduct and
honesty. The more we need, and the more we want, the more is the growth of
immoral conduct and dishonesty.
Good conduct, honesty, and fairness not only enhance a man's dignity, but
also are beneficial to all others.
If a nation is to prosper, her people should have good character.
Keep your heart pure and speak boldly. Do not think of self-esteem in public
life. You can serve confidently in direct proportion to how strong,
determined, honesty and disciplined you are.
Instead of preaching good conduct to others, everyone should introspect how
much of it is found within himself.
Only during his student life conduct can be easily inculcated in man.
A life of good character is that which does not cause pain to others. It can be
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 448

nurtured only when all differences are sunk. Character is the basis for a
happy life.
Fair conduct is that which gives no pain to anyone.
We should conduct ourselves with others, in accordance with what we expect
of others in this regard; what we think others should do unto us and what kind
of conduct towards us that we look for from others. That alone is good
character.
17. Women's Rights
Man treats woman as his own property and not as a
being capable of feelings, like himself.
Why were women prevented from receiving education?
It was to prevent their emancipation and to make them slaves under the
pretext that they did not have intelligence and ability.
The way man treats women is much worse than the way landlords treat
servants and the high-caste treat the low-caste.
These treat them so demeaningly only in situations mutually affecting them;
but men treat women cruelly and as slaves, from their birth till death.
Women in India experience worse suffering, humiliation and slavery in all
spheres than even the Untouchables.
Because we do not realize that the subjugation of woman leads to social ruin,
that society which should grow, goes on declining day by day, in spite of its
capacity for reason.
Each woman should learn an appropriate profession for herself, so that she is
also able to earn. If she is able to eke out a living at least for herself, no
husband will treat her as a slave.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 449

A woman is for the male, a cook for himself; a maid for his house; a breeding
farm for his family and a beautifully decorated doll to satisfy his aesthetic
sense. Do enquire whether they have been used for any other purpose.
The slavery of women is only because of men. The belief of men that God
created man with superior powers and woman to be slave for him, and
woman's traditional acceptance of it as truth are alone responsible for the
growth of women's slavery.
The boy and the girl are matched before marriage, not on a consideration of
compatibility in appearance, mutual affection, proper understanding and
similar education, but on whether the girl will be obedient and be a good
slave to the boy, much in the same manner as we do when we buy cattle.
The implication of the sacred knot is that from the time it is tied, the boy
accepts the girl as his slave, and she also agrees to be a slave to him. Thus,
the husband can treat his wife in whatever manner he likes, and none has the
right to question him, nor is there punishment for him if he misbehaves.
The women of today, despite their education, wealth, sophisticated
knowledge, dignified relatives and a comfortable life, behave in a very
conventional and backward manner, even worse than rustic girls, and this
causes us pain. How can there be human dignity in the children that are born
to these women and brought-up by them?
Our women should change from considering themselves as slaves by birth.
Women! Be brave! If you change, it is easy for your husbands and other men
to change. Men throw the blame on you, saying that you are backward. Do
not subject yourselves to that accusation. In future, instead of your being
described, ‘she is so-and-so’s wife’, your husband must be described, ‘so-
and-so is the husband of this lady’!
Women who are pampered by their husbands and who succumb to the craze
for jewellery and apparel and to the appeal of feminine beauty and fashions,
and those that are rich and proud, will be satisfied with their slavish
existence, and they will not serve to reform the world.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 450

The main reason for women being derided and their being considered as mere
objects of pleasure for men is that they make themselves up in an obscene
manner.
Even those women who consider themselves fashionable and sophisticated,
look upon themselves as cultured, merely by putting on fine dresses and
wearing fine jewellery, and by making themselves up attractively. They do
not realize that living on equal terms with men is what makes for civilized
life.
The term ‘primary teachers’ may first of all be applied to women, because,
for children under the ages of 6 and 7, they are really the primary teachers.
Despite there being a Goddess of Learning and a Goddess of Wealth in Hindu
religion, why do those deities not grant women their education and right to
property.
Women should be given a generous education in rational knowledge and
world affairs and they should have no access to literature or history or stories
that give rise to superstition and fear.
Among the many reasons for the subjugation of women, the most important
one is that they lack the right to property.
The tyranny of the male is the only reason for the absence of a separate word
in our languages for describing the ‘chastity’ of men.
The cruelty perpetuated in the name of chastity that a wife should put up with
even the brutal act of the husband should be abolished.
If a woman can not have the right to property and the liberty to love
whomsoever she chooses, what is she but a rubber-doll for the selfish use of
man?
To insist that chastity is only for women and should not be insisted upon for
men, is a philosophy based on biased individual ownership; the view that
woman is the property of the male determines the current status of a wife.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 451

If our literatures have all been written for the sake of justice and disciplined
conduct, then, should not all the conditions imposed on women be applied to
men too?
In this world, qualities like freedom and courage have been claimed solely as
‘masculine.’ Men have concluded that these characterize the ‘superiority of
the male.’
As long as male superiority survives in the world, the subjugation of women
will continue. Until women put an end to the principle of male domination, it
is certain that they will have no freedom.
To give man freedom of sexual selection, and to permit him to take as many
wives as he likes, gives rise to promiscuity.
Others advocate birth-control, with a view to preserving the health of women
and conserving family property; but we advocate it for the liberation of
women.
If a man has the right to claim a woman, then a woman also should have the
right to claim a man. If conditions are imposed for the worship of man by
woman, let there be conditions imposed for the worship of woman by man.
Men's ‘endeavour’ for the emancipation of women only perpetuates women's
slavery and hampers their emancipation. The pretence of men that they
respect women and that they strive for their freedom is only a ruse to deceive
women. Have you ever seen anywhere a jackal freeing the hen and the lamb,
or the cat freeing the rats, or the capitalists freeing the workers?
Do not train women for doing such slavish work as attending to household
chores; decorating the floors; making cow-dung pats, washing utensils; group
dancing (Kummi) and dancing with batons. (Kolattam).
Our superstitions are the major reason for the defects and indignities of our
society today. If our women have so much superstition, what about their
children? Any reform gains strength if it comes from women.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 452

Today's women are satisfied or get satisfied by mere fashionable make-up.
Therefore they have very little urge for their liberation.
If child-marriages are abolished and provisions exist for divorce, widow's re-
marriage, inter-caste marriages and for the right to marry by one's own
choice, then 90 per cent of the prevailing prostitution will disappear.
Man can live without woman, but every woman thinks that she can not live
without man. If we inspect the reason for this, we find that because of the
problems of child bearing, women are unable to demonstrate that they can
live without men. As men have no such burden, they are so placed as to
declare that they can live without women. Besides, problems of maternity
make women seek the help of others and this gives rise to male domination.
Therefore, for true emancipation of women, they should be completely freed
from the bothersome obligation of child-bearing.
18. Marriage
Married couple should behave to each other like bosom
friends. In any matter, the bridegroom should not have the vanity that he is
the husband. The bride also should behave in such a manner as not to think of
herself as her husband's slave and cook.
Married couple should not be hasty in bringing forth children. It will be good
if children are born at least three years after the marriage.
Married people should spend according to what they earn. They should not
borrow. Even if the income be meagre, they should save at least a little. This
is what I would call discipline in life.
Married people should have a helpful bent of mind. Even if they cannot do
good, they should desist from doing harm. A smaller number of children will
be conducive to a good and honest life and a life of comfort.
Married people should endeavour by all means to adapt their life to the
present day conditions of the world. Forgetting the world to come, they
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 453

should do what is required for life now in this world.
The terms, ‘husband’ and ‘wife’ are inappropriate. They are only companions
and partners. One does not slave for the other. They both have equal status.
Only when there is an opportunity for freedom of love, does a country or
society show enrichment in knowledge, affection, culture, and compassion.
Where love by compulsion exists, only brutality and slavishness grow.
Finding each other indispensable in life, is the mark of a lofty kind of love.
No book of ethical conduct, or scripture preaches that a child-wife should be
fettered by bonds of marriage and plunged into family life, when she is not
prepared for it by age, and entrusted to the shackled guardianship of the
husband.
Both the citizens and the police should have the right to legally proceed
against those connected with unlawful marriages.
A wedding should be contracted only on the principle of the equality of the
sexes, and equality of treatment. Otherwise, it is better that women live alone,
without ‘holy matrimony’. Why should woman be slave to man?
Wedding expenses should not go beyond 10 or 15 days average income of the
people. Another change is that the number of days of the wedding
celebrations should be reduced.
I don't accept the words, ‘wedding’, or ‘marriage’. I term it only as a contract
for companionship in life. For such a contract, except for an oath, and if
necessary, a proof of registration of the contract where is the need for other
ceremonies? Why should there be waste of mental effort, time, money,
enthusiasm and energy on that count?
Because of irrational and extravagant wedding expenses for two or three days
for gaining the approbation of a few, the wedding couple or their families
suffer for a long time in debt. A few families become paupers because of
wedding expenses.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 454

It is enough, if the man and the woman sign and declare at the Registrar's
Office that they have become ‘companions for life’. Such a wedding on the
basis of a mere signature has more dignity, advantage and independence.
We need not follow traditional customs of marriage. Observances in
accordance with the spirit of the time and society and the present advance of
knowledge should be established. If we have to follow the ways of a
particular period for all times, then it is evident that we have not grown in
knowledge.
The ‘Self-respect Marriage’ is the result of the spirit of inquiry.
Marriage does not concern the wedding couple only. It is linked with the
progress of the nation.
19. The Youth
The Youth are like children. They are captivated by the
immediacy of a situation. They are not aware of what is to come in the future.
They are attracted by what they see. Wherever there is an awakening,
wherever there is a crowd and gaiety, they are drawn to them, and when these
disappear, they simply forget them.
Mere enthusiasm, courage and a sense of sacrifice alone will not do in the
youth. The youth can be of service only when they have the capacity to
discriminate the good from the bad, the possible from the impossible, and to
reflect and ponder dispassionately.
The period of youth is a dangerous and a highly inflammable one, and so it
should be carefully safeguarded.
The youth are not trained to think for themselves. They have no opportunity
to use their reason. They are not trained to acquaint themselves with
knowledge and experience. As long as this situation does not change, they
cannot take their own decisions, based on their own thought and enquiry.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 455

Young men should be bent upon putting an end to all the religious
superstitions and fraud.
20. Politics
If there is no ‘high’ or ‘low’ by birth or by riches, there willalso be no ‘high’
or ‘low’ among the rulers and the ruled. This is the apprehension of kings.
Members of the Legislative Assembly should consider the Government as a
structure for social good, and as a true spokesman and representative of the
people, and not as a means for power, or for occupying positions of honour.
The prevalent desire for the existence of a political administration to look
after the good of the people is because the rich should not tyrannize over the
poor, the bad should not disturb the good or the meek, and the hardy
chieftains should not rob the common folk.
For a proper conduct of the administration, the administrators themselves
should be honest. There should be a rule that those who break law and order,
should be declared unfit for administration and be disqualified from
contesting elections.
Only those who want to earn wealth by hook or crook become dignitaries,
and only those who want to destroy Socialism by any means are in the lime
light. Such people should be prevented by law from finding a place in politics
and in democratic rule and administration.
Politics does not concern itself with who should rule us. It is about what kind
of rule people should have.
A nation or a society is governed in the interest of the welfare of the people
of the land, and not the welfare of the administrator.
A Government that tries to transfer its own responsibilities to the people or
their representatives, is guilty of shirking its obligations, and evading its
duties.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 456

Whatever form of politics is introduced today in our country, it should be
conducive to the creation of social equality and unity.
I would not call the rule of even a hideous brute a greater indignity or
drawback, over a people who read with pious reverence the tale in the
Ramayana that our land was administered for 14 years by a pair of sandals.
Whether man or animal be ruling, my concern is only about the principles,
the kind of administration and the benefits that the people derive.
The duty of officers is that they should serve the people honestly and
impartially, and conduct themselves with sympathy and understanding.
For the sake of the welfare of people, any Government must use repressive
measures. A Government that lacks these measures is a chaotic, atrociously
uncivilized, anarchist Government.
As long as the rich and the poor exist, practices like bribery and beggary will
never cease.
Only when the principle of capitalism goes, and communism comes into
being, can corruption be put an end to. Without that, talking about the
abolition of corruption is equivalent to preaching the laws of Manu the Hindu
fanatic.
A democratic life is that which should prevail among cultured people.
A revolution is that which destroys and changes from the base. Therefore,
this society should bring about very drastic changes in the spheres of politics
and religion.
The rule of the people is the true principle of democracy. There should be
intelligent, and reasonably honest and disciplined people for such a
‘democracy’.
Rightly or wrongly, there obtains in India a democratic rule. But party-rule
makes a mockery of it. On seeing this, what will people of other nations
think? Should not democrats be ashamed?
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 457

Everyone has the right to refute any opinion of any other person. But no one
has the right to prevent the expression of that opinion.
Rivalry should last only till the election. Once it is over, both the ruling and
opposition members should join hands to carry on the affairs of the
Government. Only then some good can be done for the people.
Dictators brook no opposition, and they force their decisions on all. In such
countries. People do not tend to think on their own and there is no freedom
for them to act on their own.
None can declare that a country has secured political freedom unless it has
achieved social reforms and social unity.
Politics is a means to end social evils. Society does not need politics that has
no bearing on social work.
The real service through politics is to serve society.
If genuine politics is to flourish, human qualities should be fostered. There
should be discipline and honesty. People should feel the need for showing
compassion to others.
If the Administration is not able to function properly, owing to party
squabbles and agitations, it is only the people who will suffer.
Because our Government seeks and trusts only Graduates, instead of utilizing
the services of men with talent and industrial acumen, there is industrial loss,
and industrial progress is retarded.
Those who contrive to acquire money, fame and position through politics, are
like a wasting disease of society.
People should contemplate whether our society is fit for freedom or
democracy, in the context of frequent floor-crossings, plots to topple
ministries, and the occurence of lawlessness.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 458

21. Public Service
Man, unlike other animals, lives in a society of his ownkind. Living as a
social animal, he has to necessarily serve others, receive help from others,
and be useful to society in some way or other. Thus, if an individual can be of
service to society, he deserves to live. Otherwise, as one merely living to eat,
what is the use of his existence?
The number of those who do selfless public service and those who served
without expecting any return, should increase. Their sterling qualities should
show the way to the people at large. Their life would be a model to show how
man should conduct himself in public life.
Since birth and death are natural, people should conduct themselves in a
praiseworthy manner during their span of life. People do not praise anyone
for nothing. We should so act as to be worthy of praise from others.
To do all the good to others that one wishes to be done for himself, is culture.
Towards that end our work should be directed.
There is no pride in experiencing joy in sensual pleasures. The best delight is
that which is felt in service. Life is not to be lived for oneself alone. It should
be for the people and for doing service.
All that I request is that you should serve the people in order to contribute to
reason and knowledge. If not, man will begin to walk on all fours, forgetting
the real function of his fore limbs.
One should consider his dignity and prestige only in his personal affairs. In
matters of public interest and in service, he should ignore them.
If those engaged in public affairs think of their own dignity, then it is evident
that they are exploiting a public cause for their personal prestige.
Those in public life should have a more than fair measure of honesty,
discipline, determination and spirit of service.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 459

Just as a man reacts in the same way to pain in any part of leg or ear or nose
or stomach or bone, he should likewise experience the woes and difficulties
of any individual in the world as though they have happened to him.
Depending on the intensity of his involvement, corporate living and feelings
of oneness will emerge.
When those who declare "we are here to protect our own women and
children, for that is our duty and goal", enter public affairs, genuine ideals
and common causes are spoiled. Also, their public service has to be
considered dishonest.
Every one thinks that public property is there to be embezzled. People with
such thoughts can never be fit for public administration.
After one's death, the land he has accumulated, no longer remains his, but
belongs to his son; this is natural. But selfless service alone can be called
one's own.
One who serves society truthfully, without cunningness, earns natural praise,
which is indeed due to him.
Virtue consists in doing good to others, and that is true service. Without this,
serving others, for the sake of salvation or to fulfil superstitious observances,
will not give real pleasure.
Tolerating the criticism of others is the true test of our public service.
The trials that occur to one who does public service are the price he pays for
his ideals.
Service is not done in return for wages, or for selfish reasons. It is done solely
to derive pleasure and satisfaction from the benefit derived by others.
That which concerns the selfish interests of all people, becomes a common
cause that is capable of uniting all.
The real characteristic of service is that, without sacrificing principles till the
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 460

end, one should stand steadfast by them, and serve, unperturbed and
unmindful of pain, blame and loss.
It is not easy to do public service. Service to God and Nation can be done by
anyone. Because one encounters meanness, opposition and indignities in
public service, none comes forward to do this service.
22. The Eradication of Caste
If our people do not consent to bring about reforms incaste, religion, habits
and customs, in what other way can freedom, excellence and self-respect be
ushered in?
A sizeable population today remains as the Untouchables, and another
sizeable population exists in the name of SUDRAS and as serfs, coolies,
menials and illegitimate children. Who wants an independence that cannot
help change these discriminations? Who wants religion, scriptures and God,
which cannot bring about a change?
Because Parties in this country are concerned with castes and communities,
Politics is carried on more for the sake of each of these Communal Parties
than for the welfare of the Public.
In a land of freedom, can the citizens be SUDRAS (heirs of whores)? Can
there be religions, epics and laws that consider the citizens Untouchables,
slaves, sinners and menials? Think and act!
No man is inferior to me. Similarly, none is superior to me. This means that
each one should live free and equal. To create this condition, caste should be
eradicated.
Doctors cure the disease after the patient has caught it. To prevent it from
recurring, the reasons for the recurrence should be discovered and the disease
wiped out. But to be administering tentative medicines every time the disease
occurs, is not an effective measure. Similarly, we should find out the root
cause for the disease of casteism which is destroying our society and put an
end to it.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 461

The caste-system that teaches notions of superiority, inferiority, high and
low, depending on birth, should be scotched at the very base.
People do not hold a man in contempt or expel him from his caste, when he
steals or utters lies or attempts to live without toil. But if he eats outside his
caste, or marries outside his caste, he is ostracised. Look at the kind of code
of conduct and integrity these people have!
If in an area, of two wells-one brackish and the other potable the well with
the drinkable water is to be utilized by a particular section, and the other well
with the salty water is to be used by another section, as though one section
alone is fit to partake of the drinkable water and the other is not fit to do so,
do consider how painful this cruelty is. Our caste system has been so
established as to cause pain to such an extent. Unless this caste system which
has been established to let a few Brahmins experience comfort, and many
suffer, is eradicated from this country, it is certain that we will never be rid of
these atrocities.
What is the use of our having one sense in excess? Animals, though with one
sense less, are casteless; we suffer degradation, in spite of our sixth sense,
because of caste! Should we not contemplate on this?
The Constitution of India at present is not conducive to the eradication of
caste. It deems it as contrary to fundamental right, and at the same time, it
also prohibits communal ratio as it considers it class-hatred. To say that caste
can exist, but not the privilege on the basis of caste, is the worst of all
deceptions.
The very word, ‘caste’, ‘Jathi’, is from Sanskrit language. In Tamil, there is
no word to describe caste. It is customary in Tamil, to ask for one's ‘sect’, or
‘class’. Birth is not conditioned by caste discriminations and caste marks.
There cannot be any caste among mankind. To speak of ‘caste’, differences
among us who are of the same country, is sheer mischief.
23. Miscellanea
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 462

Why should the divine power of God disappear if theimage of God is seen by
some? Why should God and temple be defiled if some go there? Why should
God die if some touch His image? Why should God, with the same name and
image, have different powers, according to the places where He is?
The images of God in such places as Banares, Puri and Pandaripuram do not
‘die’ when touched by anyone. Those who go to these temples offer worship
by doing all the ceremonies themselves. But why do the same-Gods ‘die’
only in Tamil Nadu, if they are touched? Thus, why do the powers of Gods
and their lives, and the reputation of temples vary from place to place?
The world goes on deteriorating day by day. Why should Man keep his faith
in a God who does not use His power to make the world honest, or to
liquidate the dishonest and beget the honest?
Is there a single person in this country who really believes in God? Not only
here, but in the whole world, who ever believed in God? I will say certainly
that there is none! Nowadays, it has become a fashion to worship God. Just as
women beautify themselves according to the fashions of the day, devotees
worship God.
* * *
Spending beyond one's means, falling into debt, inevitably as a consequence,
and then resorting to cheating the creditors, is demeaning. Even prostitution
is not so bad as this! Worse than prostitution is spending extravagantly, by
borrowing and suffering because of it. If one who earns Rs. 30 is a debtor,
and also one who earns Rs. 1000, what does it mean? He that cannot
discipline himself suffers poverty, just as she that cannot control herself
becomes a prostitute.
Only he who spends according to his means, without borrowing, will be a
rich man.
A good family is that which does not spend beyond its means. Its expenses
should be carefully husbanded. Such a family is a dignified family.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 463

Man has evolved from his lone primitive existence to a social life, because he
has thought of socially bettering the condition of his life, through mutual
help. It would not have been his intention in to ill-treat, demean, and cause
pain to others in order that he might live. If he had thought so, social life
would not have come into being at all.
Building a house and marrying are the essential rights of society. Every man
needs a shelter to live under, and a wife to live with. Without these two, there
cannot be a good life.
* * *
If our people are to acquire knowledge, they should shun journals that publish
news that is false.
There are two kinds of journals in the world. One is managed by people who
want to make a living for themselves, through popular approval. The other is
managed by those who have at heart the interests of the people and who want
to disseminate certain principles and have a particular ideal to follow.
He who does not read a journal is fit to be treated with contempt in society.
Just as the eyes and ears are indispensable for an individual to learn about
affairs around him, the news-papers are indispensable to the people of a
country in the modern world, to learn about happenings and developments.
* * *
In this country, if a person with an iota of self-respect becomes aware of how
degradingly a person is treated by another, he will work only for the removal
of such human degradation.
Our life should not cause pain to others. Every one should hold this as the
ideal of life and try to live his life accordingly.
One's life should so shape itself as to contribute to the benefit and comfort of
others.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 464

The ideal of every man should be to serve society, as he is born a human
being. The people should be lured towards the new, and made to become
conscious of the new. Discarding the old, each one should go ahead,
according to the spirt of the times. Only then can we live gloriously, like the
people of the other parts of the world.
* * *
The chief aim of a worker's agitation should be to protect the condition of the
toiling people from deteriorating; and to prevent that of the leisurely people
from rising to a position of tyrannical power.
If a man has anything that can be called his own, it is the tribute that people
consciously give him after his death.
Generally, a man's reputation is judged by what people say about him after
his death.
Man has a right to freedom. This is not only because he has the means for it,
but also because he has the intelligence and ability to match it. But man uses
this ability and energy only for subservience and degradation. That is why we
wish to bring about a great revolution in the life of mankind.
Species without the powers of reason do not indeed attempt to exploit and
degrade their kind, or fatten themselves on the work done by their kind. But
man, who is said to be rational, does not hesitate to do these.
* * *
Those who fear and feel apprehensive that others, will despise ridicule or
oppose them, or that their influence will dwindle, can never help to serve
reformistic causes.
He who takes his life easy and blames God for everything, and goes about
saying that it is God who does everything, is a fool.
Man can be characterised as good, intelligent, large-hearted and
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 465

compassionate, and not as one created by God, or one endowed with divine
power and quality.
The natural obstacles to man's birthright of self-respect are the pessimistic
tendency of hoarding for the morrow and the slavish surrender to greed.
Young men cherish what is new, for their mind is like a blank slate. The mind
of the old has recorded many impressions. If new aspects are to be imprinted,
the older ones should be erased, but they are so deeply ingrained that they can
not be easily rubbed off.
* * *
Just as sons of a family have equal rights, so those of a country should have
equal rights. Only then people can live in comfort.
It is indeed a period of happiness for those who belong to the higher social
strata, as long as people do not think in terms of equality. They can remain
‘high’ till the people of the lower strata begin to think of equality; then there
is immediate danger for those ‘above’.
In our country, many think that the meaning of liberty is to destroy the liberty
of others. This mentality stems from a slavish attitude, and not from a spirit
of independence.
The makers of the world in future will be those who serve, undeterred by the
two big enemies; the gross ignorance of the common man and the opposition
of self-seekers.
* * *
Only he who is capable of gratitude can be considered a man. The rest are
like the animals - jackals., cats, snakes, scorpions, mosquitoes, bugs-which
deceive, harm or suck the blood of others.
He who, out of fear, believes that which is contrary to knowledge and
experience, cannot become a mature man.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 466

He who, learns well and early, discipline and the manner of behaving with
others, can become a great man in life.
* * *
A big advantage, comparable to the discovery of a cure for cancer and
consumption, will come about for discipline in human society, if the code of
law and the judiciary are reformed.
The fear that expressing doubt will lead one to Hell, has been imposed upon
man, and therefore he is afraid even to think and has remained mentally
stagnant.
The ideal of sacrifice is to do public service, without expectation of any
return for personal betterment, and to serve unmindful of indignities and to be
ready to face all difficulties.
* * *
There are two reasons for people failing to realize the values of libraries in
our country. Firstly, they do not have enough education to feel the need for a
library. Secondly, they lack rationality. These two have stood in the way of
establishment of libraries and promoted the practice of planting stones and
building temples around.
* * *
Those who compromise themselves on everything, by saying ‘It is God's
will’, do not realize their mistakes. Or
if they do, they attempt to escape from responsibility for
them.
He who serves by adopting the principle of being useful to others in this
worldly life, and causes no pain to any one else, does not need a separate
religion.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 467

We speak a lot about our divine nature, but we live barbarously.
A farmer is one who himself tills the soil and, engages all his family in the
work, in order to reap the benefits.
If we can usher in rationality in some way, then our people can become fit to
perceive truth through a clear perspective.
Many among us should learn to live only for the sake of principles and to be
free from hindrance of any kind. Enemies should be afraid of you as an
‘extremist who will be up to anything’. This is true sacrifice. These kinds of
people are known as idealists.
* * *
Education is a must for enhancing the country's glory. Industrial growth is
essential for a life of self-respect and comfort.
One who is not in agreement with the changing spirit of the times, cannot live
successfully. He should be prepared for change. He who realises that progress
means change, is alone fit for a competitive world.
He who is obsessed with the desire to earn wealth wastes all his life for it.
The idea that life concerns separate individuals should never occur.
The existence of beggars and their begging for alms is a crying shame. It is a
big nuisance; it is a disgrace and a crime. If there is a God, it is a great insult
to him.
Atheists are rationalists. They always use reason.
24. Blossoms
Character is more indispensable in social life than devotion to religion. To act
as you speak and to speak as you act, is the criterion for character.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 468

Religious devotion is for the individual. Character is for all. There is no loss
if there is no devotion. Everything is lost if there is no character.
The important service we can render to our country is to make people
rationalists.
There is neither need nor work for God, if a condition is created for sharing
the available food equally, and dividing our labour equitably.
We should not think that life is only for the sake of the individual. It is also
for the welfare of others.
Showing gratitude is the duty of those who get the benefit. Expecting
gratitude for help rendered is meanness.
The labourer-employer system should go. The system whereby a worker
remains a wage-earner in a job, instead of being a partner, is slavery.
Compete in doing service to others and thus seek your glory and joy.
The duty and the responsibility of a rationalist is to thoughtfully and
promptly carry out his actions, in fraternal affection, without considering
country, language, God, religion and caste.
Trust human nature and your own awareness, and act according to their
dictates.
A rationalist should make it a practical ideal to follow in his life the same
standard of life as obtains for the average man.
Reason is the life blood of man. Depending on the clarity he derives from
reason, he becomes more and more mature.
Without any reason or basis, untouchability has been created as a result of
caste. It is foolish to think of abolishing untouchability, in the face of the
continuance of caste.
Prevention of thinking in any sphere, by the admonishment, ‘Do not think,
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 469

but just believe’, is pushing man to a condition worse than that of a beast.
I request those Tamils who are artistes, essayists, intellectuals, writers, and
also those in the field of drams, to use their arts in a manner beneficial to
people.
Forget God. Think of Man.
The concept of Soul is like a Castle built in thin air.
A man without desire and self-interest does not need God and Salvation.
Talking Communism, without eradicating caste, is like discussing higher
education without the rudiments of
learning.
Serve in order to abolish communal degradation, even sacrificing your
personal dignity.
He who believes in Pre-Destination will never succeed; he who trusts Fate
will lose his wisdom.
He who has a sense of dignity is man.
Knowledge and Dignity are assets to man.
Judge a person's worth by looking at his adversaries.
He who, out of fear, believes that which does not
agree with knowledge and experience, can not be a mature man.
If the ways of a particular time are to be followed for all time, it is evident
that man's knowledge has not grown.
Life cannot ever be deemed to be concerned with separate individuals.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 470

For the eradication of caste and untouchability, you should first abolish your
Hindu religion.
Just as the lamb is used by the jackal, the ignorant are used by the educated.
Communism is the ultimate goal of social reform.
The culmination of rationalism is communism.
A truly democratic rule is that which forbids the very utterance of the words,
Brahmin and Sudra.
Human knowledge alone can remove the pain caused by human ignorance.
I might have physically suffered by carrying a load of weight, but I have
never suffered by believing that the carrying of a load is shameful.
25. I am human!
I am a frank person. I have merely spoken out my mind.
I do not say you should believe what I have said because it alone is certain.
Accept such ideas as can be accepted, with the help of your reason, after a
sound enquiry. Reject the rest.
Do not for any reason bestow upon me any traits that are beyond human
characteristics. If I were to be considered divine, people will not inquire into
my words.
I will not subject you to a restraint, in the manner of scriptures and ancient
works, by stating that you should trust what I say, that my words are
Apocalyptic; and that if you do not believe me, you will become atheists and
go to Hell. If what I say is not agreeable to your instinct, knowledge,
experience and inquiry, reject it.
Every one has the right to refute any opinion. But no one has the right to
prevent its expression.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 471

THE RAMAYANA
[A TRUE READING]
1. INTRODUCTION
Ramayana and Baradham are the foremost imaginary epics of the
manifold romances manipulated by the Aryans. They are designed to lure the
Dravidas into their snare, to wipe off their sense of self-respect, to blunt their
discretionary faculty and to destroy their humanity.
The respective heroes of these two stories are Rama and Krishna
belonging to the Aryas and who were after all, men of a very ordinary type.
These stories again were foisted that the heroes, their relations and their
helpers should be regarded as Gods and superhuman beings and venerated by
the people as worthy of being worshipped.
A careful and analytical study of the original legends would reveal that
the happenings and the events alleged to have taken place are most
uncivilised and barbarous. It is also noticeable that there is nothing useful for
the people, especially for the Tamils to learn and act up to. It is devoid of
morals or laudable philosophy. Evidently these myths are deceitfully written
so that Brahmins may look great in the eyes of others, that the women folk be
subdued and subordinate, that their (Brahmin’s) dogmas and the code of
Manu, that are derogatory to the Tamil enforced into usage and their
existence-unwanted existence-eternized.
The originals of these stories were written in Sanskrit. This enables those
Aryans to put their interpretations really imaginary differently at different
times to suit the occasions and according to the intellectual capacity of the
people in the midst of whom they preached. They call these stories Vedas and
the marvels of the Saviours that descended from heavens to redeem the
world; they are divine rightenous dogmas (dharma shastras) that inculcate
how people should live. They call these stories the essence of Vedas, the 5th
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 472

Veda and so on and so forth. By such white lies they are augmenting the self
styled importance they do not really possess. Not stopping there, they thrust
them into religion and call them the pillars on which religion rests. Not only
the masses but also the so-called educated are deceived. The stories have
been widely diffused as very valuable and sacred ones and imbued with the
blood of the people from their very school career.
Ninety per cent of the Tamils are illiterate and of the rest ten who profess
to be literate, most of the people are superstitious scarcely using their
discretionary power. They believe in the other worlds of the Aryans’
illusionism and enslaved by this belief they acknowledge the commands of
the Aryans and act up to their dictates. To put it briefly all Tamils except the
Muslims and Christians are the devout followers of Ramayana.
That the Tamilian may have a clear perspective, that this foolishness and
fraudulent beliefs may be wiped off, that he may develop his sense of self-
respect, that he may liberate himself from the Aryan yoke of domination, it is
peremptory that the vicious motives and nature of the legends and
mythologies (puranas) should be disclosed.
With this end in view that much of the readers’ time must not be occupied
in reading them but read with undiminishing zeal the chapters of the
Ramayana are abridged, picking up all the facts that are important, and
published in the book “Valmiki Ramayana Conversation” containing 140
pages in dialogue form.
We do not give credence to the events that are alleged to have taken
place. They could not have really taken place at all. Why then so much toil in
exploring this episode? It is all because it is my longing to place before the
public especially our own men that as the Aryans preach and propagate and
hence credited by our men, the original Ramayana contains nothing
appreciable, nothing divine, nothing moral to be learned and followed and
nothing that would stand to reason, and that our men should open their eyes
and see for themselves the fair pretences and hollowness of the Aryan stories
which are helpful to call themselves (the Aryans) superior elements by birth
and regarded so by others.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 473

We shall here examine the anthropomorphic manifestations of the Devas
(Brahmins supposed to be in heaven), the Rishis (sages), Indra (the Head of
Brahmins in Heaven) and other so called saints and their qualities.
The Aryans, when they invaded the ancient land of the Dravidas,
maltreated and dishonored the latter and had written a false and coloured
history wholly fallacious. It is this they call Ramayana wherein Rama and his
accomplices are styled as Aryas, Ravana as Rakshasa (Dravidian) and
Hanuman, Sugriva, Vali and others as monkeys. This is the conclusion which
the great research scholars have come to.
It is the theme of this book to mirror to the Tamils what ascendancy is
given to the Aryan and how disgracefully the other communities are
deprecated and how oblivious of the sense of self-respect the communities
thus debased adore the Aryan characters of the Ramayana and the treacherous
and disloyal Dravida betrayers of their own men as Alwars and deities,
venerable.
One feature which is the most important of all is that the Tamils, chiefly
the educated Tamils when they speak of Ramayana, mean the Kamba
Ramayana. The Tamil Pandits to earn their bread and to make a display of
their proficiency in literature take themselves up to learning and teaching the
Kamba Ramayana and making public speeches on it. The masses should be
educated to see how the truth and trend of the Valmiki Ramayana are
screened by the affected nicety of the villainous Kamban in drawing a
deflected picture of the story swallowing up the real matters. It is regrettable
that the Tamil scholars at the cost of their honour and dignity appear before
the public to preach of the greatness and sacredness of Kamban’s work.
If the readers of this book while going through it with an unbiased mind
come upon any points unheard of, strange and whimsical they will kindly
refer to the Tamil translation from Sanskrit works by Mr. Anandachariar
made in 1877 and also to the translations lately by Pandit Natesa Shastriar,
Messrs. C.R. Srinivasa Iyengar, Narasimachariar, Govinda Rajar,
Annangachariar and other Brahmins. The readers are also desired to peruse
the translation by Pandit Mammathanath Thathar, a great Sanskrit and
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 474

Bengali scholar. The English translation by Mr. Wilson and the true
translation works of others may also be cited for reference.
2. THEME OF THE STORY
The details and events of Ramayana run very much like those of the
Arabian Nights, Shakespeare, Madanakama Rajan, Panchatantram and other
fables. They are beyond human skill and conception. It may therefore be
asserted that Ramayana is not a real story. One may say that only by odd
facts the divinity and the divine powers of Gods can be impressed. But one
will clearly see that the facts stated there are baseless, needless and senseless
and besides on occasions where the noble qualities, forethought, geniality and
good-will should be exercised, the attitude taken falls far below the level of
an average man.
While it is stressed that Rama, the hero of the story, should be valued as
God descended from heaven in human form, Valmiki, the author, depicts that
Rama was wicked in thought and deed, was an embodiment of lies, treachery,
artifice and cunningness, hard-heartedness, greediness, murder, drunkenness,
flesh eating, arrowing at the innocent covertly, wicked associations,
unmanliness and what not. It will be seen clearly that there is nothing divine
in Rama or the story about him and that the qualities are far below the
average level and there is nothing educative to Tamils and worthy of being
followed.
3. THE ORIGIN OF THE STORY
The story is neither religious nor rational. The Devas (Brahmins supposed
to be in heaven) complained to the four-faced Brahma that the Rakshasas
(slanderous attribution to Dravidians) despoiled the sacrifices performed by
them. Brahma approached his father Vishnu. Vishnu resolved to descend to
the earth and took birth as Rama and killed Ravana, the king of the Rakshasas
(Balakandam 15th Chapter). This is the origin of the story.
Having come down to the earth, Vishnu experienced many troubles and
tribulations and the reason therefore as adduced by the sacred puranas
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 475

(mythologies) of the Aryans is that Vishnu (previously Thirumal) perpetrated
many immoral and infamous acts and hence punishments were imposed on
him as a retaliatory measure by the curses of the Munis (Saints) and Rishis
(Sages) whom he had wronged. Why cursed? He (Thirumal) committed the
sin of killing a woman, the wife of Biruhu Muni. He (Thirumal) resorted to
illegal and deceptive means to impair the chasity of Jalandrasuran’s wife. He
(Thirumal) intercoursed with his wife (Thirumagal) in broad day-light in an
open space, perhaps to be spectacular!
Many such nonsensical stories are found in the puranas. Leave them as
they are. It would behove every right-thinking man to inquire who Devas and
Asuras are, who are Rakshasas, what sacrifice means, how Vishnu being a
God became a slave to passions like lewdness, theft, murder and all nefarious
deeds. Do the perpetrators of such vulgar acts deserve to be adored as Gods?
When and where were these things done? In the subtle upper worlds or in this
physical world? Where did the Devas reside? Why should they come to this
physical world to perform the Yagams i.e. sacrifices in Fire? Is killing the
poor animals by tortuous means and gulping the flesh along with intoxicants
and uttering mantras, the definition of Yagam? With these things can it be
said, God is pleased and he offers to Devas and other performers and
organisers of Yagam higher status and perhaps emoluments too? It is unjust
to prevent such cruelty being done to the dumb creatures? Is it fair on the part
of God to consider these merciless butchers as Devas, and the sympathetic
preventers as Rakshasas and monsters? All these are to be seriously
considered by the learned.
In these days, cruelty to animals and indulging in intoxicating drink are
considered by the people as well as the Government as crimes punishable
with fine and imprisonment. Would it not have been just and fair in the days
of “Ravana” also to prevent these crimes? Ravana was a devotee of Siva and
as would befit a devotee would it not have been his (Ravana’s) duty to enjoin
by laws and order that his state should be dry and that Yagams which
involved cruelty to animals should not be performed. Is it fair that a god
should incarnate and annihilate such a king, his dynasty, his country and his
people merely because he prevented such inhuman acts, done in the name of
Yagam in his own kingdom? If we ponder over these points we will find that
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 476

Ramayana is full of absurdities.
4. THE SACRIFICE
In Balakandam, the first chapter of Ramayana, it is said that Dasaratha,
the King of Ayodhi, was making preparations to perform a Yagam (Fire
igniting) for begetting a son. In that Yagam many creatures like sheep, cattle,
horses, birds and snakes-generally all creatures viviparous and oviparous,
were kept ready to be sacrificed. Horrible that so many lives should be
slaughtered for the benefit of an individual expecting fatherhood! Is it
sustainable to say that god was pleased to bless one with a son after the lives
of innumerable creatures were offered to him at the sacrificial fire? Could the
Devas take delight in such slaughterings? These Devas are said to have a
King. He is called Devendra. His cruel, detestable and unconscionable acts as
are narrated in the stories about him speak of the cunning and cruel Aryan
culture and civilization.
What about the Yagam (Fire sacrifice)? Kausalya, one of the wives of
Dasaratha, at one stroke moved down the neck of the horse consecrated for
the Yagam and lay a whole night embracing the carcass (Balakandam, 14th
Chap.). We cannot conceive of their human nature if such is their godly
nature. It does not stop there. It cannot but be detestable and shock one’s
mind and body if one should be take oneself to know what Yagam is
according to Yaga Shastras. The loathsome description of it can be found in
the book “Gnana Suriyan” published in the “Kudi Arasu” press. At day-dawn
Dasaratha made a present rather as fees for the performance of the Yagam,
his first wife, Kausalya along with his other two wives, Sumatirai and
Kaikeyi, to three Brahmin priests. These priests having done full justice to
their animal passion delivered the ladies back to the king who made no bones
about it (Balakandam, 14th Chap.). It was after this, that the ladies became
pregnant. Manmathanath Dathar, in his English transation, writes that three
priests, named Hotha, Advaryu and Yukdha were pawned upon to enjoy these
women. 
Why then a Yagam for begetting children by this means? If our best
thought is bestowed on this it would be crystal clear that the process of the
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 477

Yagam and the happenings there in accordance with their Yaga Shastras and
their puranas could not have caused the birth of children but it was by the
priests that the royal wives conceived. To corroborate this, Dasaratha was at
the time the Yagam was performed sixty thousand years old and he had sixty
thousand wives. This is according to Kamban; but according to Valmiki he
had three hundred and fifty wives. From this it is apparent that Dasaratha was
a decrepit old man and was a lascivious mass of flesh. It is not uncommon
that an old man weak and unfirm should have mere craziness for women
without the required virility to produce children and should beguile his time
in the company of women.
It is a matter for reflection whether these three wives, who were, as it
were, barren since long, could have conceived on the day following the
Yagam by the effort of an old, infirm and impotent totterer in the evening of
his age.
The three ladies were delivered to three prohits (Brahmin Priests) one to
each, who, having used them to the full as they chose and as long as they
desired, returned them back to the king and received wages for the work
turned out by them. Who can say that Dasaratha was the cause of their
conception? Even if Rama, Lakshmana, Baratha and Sathrukana were born in
reality to the prohits and not to Dasaratha, it is not condemned by the Arya
Dharma. 
It is laid down in their Shastras that if a Brahmin woman is childless she
may beget children by other men subject to certain conditions. In support of
this, it may be seen in Baratham, another Aryan story, that even without the
pretense of Yagam many widows had become mothers by illicit connection
with their family Guru (Teacher), Viyasa. Thirutharashtra and Pandu were
products of this kind. There are many such births in Baratham. Take Sita’s
birth: Sita’s mother by the aid of some unknown husband for the time being
begot Sita and threw the child away in a forest. Sita herself confessed that her
marriage had been delayed because of her unknown parentage. It is strange to
see in the (Aryan) Puranas that in many cases pregnancy had been caused not
by men but by lower animals. From these facts it is apparent that Yagam has
nothing to do with child birth but it is only a festivity intended to drink and
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 478

eat flesh and amuse themselves in revelry.
Now let us consider the Ramayana characters as we see them in the
Ramayana.
5. DASARATHA
Next to the Yagam the coronation of Rama by Dasaratha must be peered
into. In the chapters dealing with this are explained the moral and mental
depravities of Dasaratha, his sons, wives, ministers, Gurus (Teachers), etc..
1. Dasaratha made a promise to Kaikeyi while marrying her that the son
that would be born through her would be crowned as King of Ayothi. Some
stories in this connection also say that the kingdom was in essence
surrendered to her at the time of the marriage and Dasaratha ruled it only as
her representative.
2. In the story in original this fact is confirmed and Dr. Somasundara
Barathiar, M.A.,B.L., in his book “Kaikeyi’s Chastity and Dasaratha’s
Turpitude” disclosed it.
3. Rama and his mother Kausalya were not unaware of his proposal made
by Dasaratha. The old king openly opined to Rama that the departure of
Baratha (son of Kaikeyi) to his uncle’s house was an auspicious indication
for the celebration of his (Rama’s) coronation (Ayothia Kandam, 4th Chap.)
Dasaratha kept Baratha in his grand-father’s house for the ten years solely
with the sinister object of dispossessing him of his right to the country.
There was no exigency calling for his stay at his grandfather’s house for
ten long years continuously without turning up to Ayothi. Valmiki putting it
in the character of Mandarai says in the 7th and 8th Chapters “Dasaratha,
with a preplanned motive to make Rama the King, sent away Baratha to his
uncle’s house. The immediate presence of Baratha in the capital city would
enable him to win the sympathy of the citizens and his exile (in his uncle’s
house) would make him lose contact with the people. This was also the
intention of Dasaratha.”
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 479

4. Suddenly with a sophistic announcement to the people on a previous
day Dasaratha made preparations for the coronation of Rama the following
day. (Ayothia Kandam, 1st Chapter).
5. The ministers, Vasishta and other Gurus, and also Rama had known
fully well that Baratha was the heir to the throne and yet they were insidious
enough to give their assent to enthroning Rama.
6. Kausalya (Rama’s mother) also was always praying that Rama should
ascend the throne.
7. Without prior notice or invitation to Baratha, Sathrukana, Kaikeyi, and
King of Kaikeyam for such an important coronation (Ayothia Kandam,
Chapter I) arrangements were made by Dasaratha in a great hurry.
8. Dasaratha in his private conversation with Rama said that “even if
necessity arose for Baratha to stop the coronation yet he would accept it
calmly without making any protest if it had taken place in his absence, before
his arrival. Because Baratha was gentle, good-natured and would accept what
has already happened as a noble man (Ayothia Kandam, 12th Chapter.)
10. He said to Kaikeyi: “You have spoiled all the elaborate arrangements
already made.” He did not tell her even a single word that Rama was the first
born son and was therefore entitled to be the king of the land. After all his
efforts to bring her around failed, he called Rama to his side and whispered to
him, “Rama! I had agreed to crown Baratha when I was not quite myself.
This is not therefore binding on you. You may become the ruler of the land
expelling me from the throne.”
11. All his efforts having proved ineffectual he ordered Sumandra to
despatch along with Rama all the money in the treasury, the grains in the
granary, all the subjects including the merchants and harlots to the forest
(Ayothia Kandam, 36th Chapter.)
12. Kaikeyi having objected to this also, Dasaratha twisted the issue by
arguing “You wanted only the country and not all that it contained” (Ayothia
Kandam, 36th Chapter.)
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 480

13. Then he handed over all the ornaments in the treasury to Sita (Ayothia
Kandam, 36th Chapter.)
14. Dasaratha, being disconcerted, heaped abuses on Kaikeyi for sending
Rama and Sita to the forest but he was not for a while perturbed over his
another son Lakshmana following Rama to the forest. There is no reference
about the wife of Lakshmana also.
In his translation of Valmiki Ramayana from Sanskrit into Tamil
published in 1925 (Second Edition) the late Mr. C.R. Sreenivasa Iyengar,
Professor of the Sanskrit College, Madras observed under the caption, ‘Notes
on Ayothia Kandam’ that Dasaratha was a killer of conscience and made
charges twenty in number against Dasaratha. He endorsed the action of
Kaikeyi and Sumitharai. The charges are:-
1. Dasaratha forgot the two boons he had granted to Kaikeyi
thoughtlessly. According to the boons she might demand whatever she
choose.
2. He forgot the word which he had given her at her marriage that he
would give his kingdom to the son that would be born through her.
3. Even after having lived so long as sixty thousand years he was
enslaved by his animal passion and consequently did not treat his first two
wives (Kausalya and Sumitharai) fairly as they deserved.
4. His promise made foolishly to Kaikeyi to soothe her.
5. His declaration in the presence of his subjects of handing over the
kingdom to his son Rama. This is a breach of the promise made to Kaikeyi
and her father.
6. As a sequel to his grant of the boons asked for by Kaikeyi, Rama was
sent away to the woods and this frustrated his subsequent declaration of
enthroning Rama.
7. These iniquities rendered it impossible for Baratha to get the State
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 481

promised to him by Dasaratha.
8. The advice given by Vasishta was that according to the tradition in the
lineage of Elakkukvagu the eldest son of the family should get the kingdom.
But Dasaratha spurned it aside overcome by lust for Kaikeyi.
9. He must pay for his own stupidity; but he cursed Kaikeyi instead and
begged her to recede from pressing her boons.
10. He forgot who he was and what his status was as a king but fell at her
feet.
11. Sumandra and Vasishta who were in the know of Dasaratha’s
promises could have pointed out to Dasaratha the promises made by him to
Kaikeyi, warned him and dissuaded him from crowning Rama; but they too
did not.
12. Vasishta who could read the future fixed the time auspicious to
celebrate the function though he knew very well that the plan (Rama’s
coronation) would end in smoke.
13. Siddharta, Sumandra and Vasishta endeavoured to dissuade Kaikeyi
who demanded her legitimate claim and that failing they rebuked her.
14. Dasaratha who had sought the consent of the people and the Rishis for
the ablution of Rama sent him to the woods of his own accord i.e. without
consulting his ministers, great Rishis and people. This is arroganace and
disregard for the wishes of others.
15. The subjects and the Rishis who were thus disregarded did not
remonstrate with him and stop Rama from proceeding to the woods.
16. Rama ought to have known of his own birth and also of the promise
made by Dasaratha while marrying Kaikeyi that her son alone should succeed
the throne (Ayothia Kandam, Chapter 107); yet he was mute and quiet
without bringing it home to his father and was willing to be crowned.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 482

17. “It is likely that several impediments may upset our arrangement” said
Dasaratha to Rama. He further added that Baratha was generous and liberal
minded and spiritually evolved. It was long time since he had gone to his
uncle’s house. Even such men as were gifted with a firm and strong will
might, by extraneous forces, change their minds. It would therefore be
desirable that the function was finished before the return of Baratha (Ayothia
Kandam-4). Thus Dasaratha tried to betray Baratha (denying his legitimate
claim) and decided to enthrone Rama tacitly. Rama too agreed to this
conspiracy meekly.
18. Janaka was not invited for. If perchance Baratha was crowned he
(Janaka) might resent it, as it was but right to put only Rama in the throne.
19. The King of Kaykeyam was not invited because he would resent if
Rama was crowned ignoring the promise already made in favour of Baratha.
20. The other kings were not invited because of the intricacies. There are
sufficient reasons and arguments available for the right and just action of
Kaikeyi and Mandarai. Without taking all these into consideration it is
unreasonable and irrelevant to abuse them and level innumerable charges
against them.
6. RAMA
Let us now consider Rama and study his character:-
1. Rama was quite aware that the kingdom was virtually handed over to
Kaikeyi at the time of her marriage. He himself told this to Baratha (Ayothia
Kandam, 107th Chapter).
2. His amiable conduct towards the people, his father and Kaikeyi was
only motivated by his desire to usurp the throne. (He was all along a snake
under the grass).
3. He acquiesced himself in all the devices which his father was making
to crown him in the absence of Baratha.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 483

4. Fearing that Lakshmana might envy at his lot and do him any harm,
Rama cajoled him saying, “Lakshmana! Only on your behalf I am going to be
crowned. Really you are going to rule the country” (Ayothia Kandam, 4th
Chapter). In the end Lakshmana had no concern over the affairs of the state.
5. All through he had been feeling diffident within himself whether the
function would end in success or in fiasco.
6. He lamented secretly when Dasaratha pronounced, “The Kingdom is
not for you. You must go to the forest” (Ayothia Kandam, 19th Chapter).
7. He mournfully revealed to his mother: “It has been ordained that I have
to lose the kingdom, forego the princely comforts and the tasteful meat-
dishes and to go to the forest to eat the vegetables and fruits.” (Ayothia
Kandam, 20th Chapter.)
8. With a heavy heart he said to his wife and mother: “The Kingdom that
has been about to become mine has slipped out of my hands (Ayothia
Kandam, 20, 26, 94th Chapters) and also I have been ordained to go to the
forest”.
9. He approached Lakshmana and characterised his father (Dasaratha) as
a criminal and said, “Will any fool agree to send away to the forest a person
who has all through been carrying out his will? (Ayothia Kandam, 53rd
Chapter).
10. Rama married many wives. This is found in the translation of Valmiki
Ramayana published by Mr. C.R. Sreenivasa Iyengar in the year 1925
(Second Edition - Ayothia Kandam, 8th Chapter, Page 28). He (Mr. C.R.S.
Iyengar) says, “Though Rama had married Sita to be the queen he married
many other wives for sexual pleasure in accordance with the royal custom.
Manmatha Nath Dather says, “Rama’s wives were used to take pleasure in
company with their servant women. In the same way your (Kaikeyi’s)
daughter-in-law (Baratha’s wife) would plunge herself in sorrow.” (His
translation published in 1892-Ayothia Kandam, page 202, 8th Chapter) The
term “Rama’s wives” has been used in many places in Ramayana.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 484

11. Though Kaikeyi’s affection towards Rama was beyond doubt, Rama
was all along insincere and artful to her.
12. Rama had been pretending to be honest and affectionate towards
Kaikeyi and in the end he accused her that “Kaikeyi was a wicked woman”
(Chapters 31 and 53, Ayothia Kandam).
13. Though Kaikeyi was devoid of ill feelings yet Rama charged her that
“Kaikeyi would ill-treat my mother”. (Ayothia Kandam, 31 and 53rd
Chapters).
14. “She may murder my father.” Thus Rama charged Kaikeyi insolently.
(Chapter 53, Ayothia Kandam).
15. In the forest whenever Rama encountered occasions which made him
feel that danger was imminent, many a time he exclaimed that “Kaikeyi’s
desire is fulfilled; Kaikeyi will be satisfied”.
16. In the forest he told Lakshmana, “As our father has grown old and
infirm and as we have also come to the forest, Baratha with his wife will be
ruling over Ayothia joyfully without any opposition.” (Ayothia Kandam,
53rd Chapter). This brings to light his innate baseness, ambition to capture
the throne and jealousy.
17. When Kaikeyi said to him, “Rama! The king desired me to convey to
you that Baratha should be crowned King of Ayothi and you should go to the
forest,” he replied “the king has never told me that he would give the
kingdom to Baratha”. (Ayothia Kandam, 19th Chapter).
18. He called his father “a fool, an idiot.” (Ayothia Kandam, 53rd
Chapter).
19. He appeals to his father “to continue rulling the country and let none
ascend the throne until he has returned from the forest.” Thus he put a spoke
in the wheel to check Baratha’s ascendancy to the throne (Ayothia Kandam,
34th Chapter).
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 485

20. “If I am enraged I can myself crush all my enemies and become the
king. But I desist from taking this course for the fear that I will be scorned at,
by the people at large” thus Rama showed his disregard for justice and
truthfulness (Ayothia Kandam, 53rd Chapter).
21. He told his wife, Sita: “You cater to the taste of Baratha without
earning his ill-feeling. This will yield much benefit to us later.” (Chapter 26,
Ayothia Kandam).
22. Baratha hearing the news of Rama’s banishment went to the forest to
take him back to the country. On seeing Baratha, Rama questioned him. “O
Bharatha, are you chased away by the citizens? Have you come here out of
your unwillingness to help our father?” (Ayothia Kandam, Chapter 100).
23. “Now your mother’s desires are accomplished, is she happy?”
(Ayothia Kandam, Chapter 100), thus Rama further asked Baratha.
24. Baratha assured to Rama that he gave up his claim to the throne. Then
only Rama disclosed to Baratha the secret that Dasaratha had already handed
over the kingdom to his (Baratha’s) mother, Kaikeyi. (Chapter 107, Ayothia
Kandam).
25. Baratha having made over his kingdom to Rama, returned to Ayothi
with the shoes of Rama. He placed them on throne and led an ascetic life for
fourteen years. He pined that Rama did not return on the fixed day; so he was
making preparations to throw himself into fire. Such an upright and noble
person was suspected by Rama. When Rama reached the outskirts of Ayothi,
he sent Hanuman to Baratha to inform him, “I have come with a great force
and also with Vibishana and Sugriva. Then observe the impressions in his
face and also the steps he hurries up to take soon on hearing this, because it is
hard for any one to relinquish the pleasures and the luxuries of ruling which
Ayothi abounds with.” (Chapter 127, Uttara Kandam).
26. Rama was ever suspicious of Sita’s character and asked her to plunge
herself into the fire and come out to prove her chasity. Even though Sita had
undergone this trial prescribed by Rama, yet Rama found out Sita’s
pregnancy. The doubt about the chastity of Sita was then a subject matter in
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 486

the lips of everyone. Drawing the attention of Sita to this opinion of the
people about her chastity and at the same time without revealing to Sita his
own finding, Rama caused Sita being taken to the forest and left there when
she was pregnant.
27. When Valmiki asserted the chastity of Sita, yet Rama did not believe
it and so she had to die, getting down into the hollow of the earth.
28. He made friends with Sugriva and Vibishana knowing that they were
knaves and that they approached him with the treacherous intention to kill
their brothers and usurp the throne.
29. He stealthily killed Vali who had done him no harm, from behind, for
the sake of Vali’s disloyal brother. This Rama who had not dared himself to
fight face to face with Vali is hailed as a hero by the ignorant and greatly
praised by the Brahmins by adding greater emphasis.
30. Even, while accepting the surrender of Vibishana, Rama unknowingly
revealed his own evil mindedness and treachery. Rama admired Baratha that
none on earth except Bharatha could embrace the Dharma of loyalty and
obedience to his elder brother however vicious he (elder brother) might be.
He wondered whether there was any other brother (born of the same father
and mother) who would be of Baratha’s type. (Uttara Kandam, Chapter 17)
Thus Rama in a way accepted that he was wicked.
31. While killing Vali, Rama justified his action by explaining to him
(Vali) that the rule of “Dharma need not be adhered to in the case of beasts”
and yet Rama killed Vali on the ground that Vali had not conducted himself
as a rational being ought to. Without making any attempt to get the
explanation of Vali for charges levelled against him, Rama killed Vali relying
wholly on the word of the selfish Sugriva.
32. Rama disfigured and mutilated many women by cutting off their
noses, breasts, ears, etc. and tortured them (Soorpanagai, Ayomuki).
33. Rama killed many women (Thadagai).
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 487

34. Rama on several occasions uttered lies to women.
35. Rama insulted women, thus - “Women should not be trusted,” and
“Secrets should not be confided to wife” (Ayothia Kandam, Chapter 100)
36. Rama had always an undue lust for sexual pleasure.
37. Rama killed and ate many lives unnecessarily.
38. Rama said that he had been to the forest only to kill the Rakshasas
(Dravidians) and that he had also been to the forest to keep up the word given
to somebody else that he would destroy the Rakshasas (Aranya Kandam,
Chapter 10).
39. Determined to drag the Rakshasas into a war, Rama entered Ravana’s
territory despite the protest of Sita (Aranya Kandam, Chapter 9 and 10).
40. While fighting with Karan, Rama said: “I have been sent to the forest
charged with the only mission to slay Rakshasas” (Aranya Kandam, Chapter
29).
41. With a selfish motive Rama surrendered himself to Sugriva, who was
worthless and treacherous, saying, “Accept me,” “Show mercy on me.”
42. Having known that Vibishana had betrayed his own brother (Ravana),
Rama took him to his side (Uttara Kandam, Chapter 17).
43. Having already assured the kingdom of Lanka to Vibishana (Uttara
Kandam, Chapter 18) Rama sent messenger, Angatha, to Ravana with a
message that he would disown Lanka if Sita was returned to him (Rama).
“Tell Ravana that I would leave Lanka to him if Sita is released” (Uttara
Kandam, Chapter 40). This proves that Ravana was free from any other slur
and that Rama was an untrustworthy man.
44. Baratha, Kaikeyi, the citizens and the Guru all went to the forest and
implored Rama to return to the country. They even resorted to “Satyagraha”
before Rama. But Rama was obdurate and replied, “I am determined to carry
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 488

out my father’s word and not to pay heed to anyone else.” Thus he refused to
return. This same Rama agreed to accept the throne disregarding the word of
father (Dasaratha’s promise to Kaikeyi that he would hand over the kingdom
to her son (Baratha) (Yuddha Kandam, Chapter 130).
45. Not only did he consent to ascend the throne but from the time Rama
was desired to go to the forest by his father till he returned to Ayothi and go
himself enthroned, he was nurturing nothing else but his ambition, care and
hope for the throne. Rama revealed this on many occasions through his own
utterances.
46. Sambuka was slain (by Rama) because he was making penance which
was forbidden to him by Vedas as he was a “Sudra” if Dravidian Race
(Uttara Kandam, Chapter 76).
47. After throwing Lakshmana into a river (Uttara Kandam, Chapter 106)
Rama like an ordinary man fell down into a river and died. Then Rama was
reborn as Vice-Indra (Uttara Kandam, Chapter 110).
48. Looking at his hand Rama said the Sanskrit slogan “O right hand, you
kill this Asche Sudra unhesitatingly as killing this Sudra is the only way to
get back the life of the deceased Brahmin boy. Are you not one of the limbs
of Rama?” (Valmiki Ramayana).
NOTE: This Rama who mercilessly took away the life of Sambuka for no
other fault than that he was making penance is held to be the Avatar
(Incarnation) of Vishnu! If there were kings like Rama now! Alas! What
would be the plight of those who are called “Sudras” the meaning of which is
‘Sons of prostitutes’?
49. The bow that was broken by Rama was Siva’s. This bow was already
a broken one. (Refer ‘Abidhana Chintamani’ Written by Mr. Singaravelu
Mudaliar -  Pages 157, 331, 571, 663, 894, 1151, 1173 and 1494).
50. This is supported by various Ramayanas and the story of Parasuram.
Look at Rama’s age when he broke the bow. When Rama broke this bow,
according to his mother, he was then 5 years old; according to his father, he
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 489

was about 10. According to his wife (Sita) his age was 12. Whatever it might
be that it was already a broken bow is true according to the story.
The views of Navalar Dr. Somasundara Bharathiar:
Rama according to the Valmiki Ramayana, was not an upright man. He
had a hand in many acts of perfidy.
Rama was quite cognizant of the fact that he had no just claim over the
country and that Baratha was the legal heir.
Rama’s father, Dasaratha at the time of the marriage of Baratha’s mother,
“Kaikeyi” had given word to the father of Kaikeyi, that “the son born of
Kaikeyi would be the King of Ayothi”. Only on this condition Kaikeyi was
given in the marriage to Dasaratha.
Rama knew this fact and that he himself confessed this truth.
Rama himself pointed out this to Baratha and also implored him not to
blame his mother Kaikeyi.
This was known to Rama’s mother, Kausalya, to Vashishta and to other
Rishis (Sages) and ministers. To be brief Rama’s mother, Rishis, Gurus and
ministers were the accomplices of Dasaratha in the conspiracy hatched by
him to deprive Baratha of the throne treacherously and to bring Rama as the
King of Ayothi.
RAMAYANA BY AN AMERICAN
(OBEI MENON) Published in Russian Paper:
The American interpretation makes Rama something in the nature of a
Chicago gangster and SITA a light minded girl rather pleased at being
kidnapped by the demon Ravana”. (See “News and views from the Soviet
Union” dated November 20th 1954, Volume XIII. No. 263, Page 2).
7. SITA
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 490

Let us examine the character of Sita. In the whole story of Ramayana
there is scarcely a word of praise about Sita:-
1. Her birth is doubtful and questionable (Ayothia Kandam-Chapter 66).
She was older than Rama.
2. She says, “I was found out from the dust and by that fact my parentage
not being known, none did come forward to woo me for many years even
after I attained maturity”.
3. She was discarded within a few days after her marriage by Baratha.
4. This was also endorsed by Rama when he told Sita:-
“You do not deserve the praise of Baratha.” (Ayothia Kandam, Chapter
26).
5. This was also admitted by Sita herself when she told Rama, “I do not
like to live with Baratha who despises me.”
6. She called her husband a “simpleton”.
7. “You are only in appearance a man but really you lack in manliness”.
8. “You lack in potence, manners and charm.”
9. “You are no better than a woman monger who lets his wife for hire and
makes his livelihood. You want to be profited by my prostitution.”
10. Sita having scented that Rama was always suspicious of her conduct
exclaimed “Rama! You are my saviour! In none but your-self I repose my
love; this many a time I swear by you; yet you do not believe me!”
11. Rama said “I tested you”. (6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11-Ayothia Kandam, Chapter
30).
12. Rama having in mind her pompousness and frailty of mind directed
her that she should strip off all her ornaments if she were to accompany him
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 491

to the forest. (Ayothia Kandam, Chapter 30).
13. Sita did accordingly but again she put on some other jewels
unknowingly (Ayothia Kandam, Chapter 30).
14. Kausalya who was noticing this, advised Sita “to behave like a noble
and virtuous lady. Do not disregard your husband’s worth.” Sita insolently
replied to her mother-in-law, “I know all this”. Yet she did not strip off her
jewels. (Ayothia Kandam, Chapter 37).
15. When Rama and Lakshmana were clad in the barks of trees, Sita
declined to wear such barks. (Ayothia Kandam, Chapter 37).
16. The other ladies who perceived Sita’s unwillingness pitied her and
begged of Rama to leave her behind. Yet Rama pressed Sita to wear bark-
clothes and took her to the forest as Kaikeyi did not agree to desire of other
ladies. (Ayothia Kandam, Chapters 37 and 38).
17. Still Sita did not pay heed to all the advice given to her. She wore her
fine dress and jewels. It is therefore clear that Baratha’s dislike towards Sita
and Kaikeyi’s refusal to permit Sita to remain in the country are the main
reasons for Sita being taken to the forest.
18. Sita prayed to the river while crossing it:- “Oh! River - If I return
safely to Ayothia I will offer you a thousand cows and a thousand pots of
toddy”. (Ayothia Kandam, Chapter 52).
19. Whenever Sita feared that some danger was imminent in the forest she
would say to herself. “Our distress will delight and satisfy Kaikeyi”. Thus
Sita revealed her hostility towards Kaikeyi.
20. Whenever Rama was languishing in the disappearance of Sita,
Lakshmana casually remarked. “Why do you bother yourself for an ordinary
woman”. (Aranya Kandam, Chapter 66).
21. Lakshmana expressed that Sita was a woman of questionable
character. (Aranya Kandam, Chapter 18).
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 492

22. Rama had gone out in the search of the deer. Sita was persuading
Lakshmana to go to the help of Rama. Seeing that Lakshmana was hesitating
to go out leaving Sita alone, Sita made scathing remarks on Lakshmana as,
“Is it to seduce me that you are lingering here with indifference to save the
life of Rama? Is it for this purpose you followed us to the forest like an
honest fellow? You are a knave. You are bent upon killing Rama out of your
lust for me. Is it for this purpose that Baratha sent you along with us to the
forest? I will never yield to your wishes of Baratha’s.”
23. When Lakshmana with all respects due to a mother replied to Sita that
it would not befit her to talk so indecently, Sita said, “You are cunning; you
betray your lust for me and you are gaining time for gazing at me. (These two
points can be seen in Chapter 45, Ayothia Kandam).
24. Ravana visited Sita’s abode with an intention to carry her away. On
seeing her he was captivated by her beauty. Ravana fell in love and advanced
towards her. He began to describe highly about Sita’s breast and bewitching
limbs. To all these what were Sita’s reactions? Did she spurn him? Did she
rebuke him? No, not at all. He was given a warm reception. She spoke in his
presence of her high reputation and of her youthful form without revealing
her real age (Aranya Kandam, Chapters 46 and 47).
25. Sita began to dislike him (Ravana) only after he had said that he was
Ravana, the chief of Rakshasas.
26. While Ravana was carrying her away seated in is lap she was half
naked, herself denuding the upper half. (Aranya Kandam, Chapter 54).
27. As soon as Sita stepped into Ravana’s palace, her love towards
Ravana grew more (Aranya Kandam, Chapter 54).
28. There Ravana said to Sita, “Come, let us enjoy together” But Sita
closing her eyes, sobbed. (Aranya Kandam, Chapter 55).
29. Ravana said, “Ah! Sita, our company is chanced by the divine will.
This is agreeable to the Rishis. (Aranya Kandam, Chapter 55).
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 493

30. Sita replied, “You are free to embrace this body of mine as you will. I
need not protect it. I should not be moan that I have blundered.” (Aranya
Kandam, Chapter 59). It may be inferred here that Sita did not give her
consent to Ravana to cohabit her.
31. Rama said, “Sita! How could Ravana have left you without being
seduced?” To this charge by Rama, Sita gave the following reply which
confirms the above inference.
32. Sita replied, “True! But what could I do? I am only a weaker sex. My
body was in his possession. I did not do anything wrong willingly.   However
mentally I was with you. It was only a divine will. She said only so much.
But she did not assert herself that Ravana has not seduced me” (Uttara
Kandam, Chapter 118).
33. Seeing her pregnancy, Rama’s doubt increased. He took shelter under
the charge made by the citizens and ordered his brother Lakshmana to take
Sita to the forest and leave her there. There Sita showing her abdomen to
Lakshmana said, “See! I am pregnant”. (Uttara Kandam, Chapter 48).
34. In the forest she gave birth to two children (Uttara Kandam, Chapter
66).
35. When at length Rama asked Sita to swear she declined and died
(Uttara Kandam, Chapter 97).
36. “Ravana most respectfully with bowed head and without touching her
person made Sita follow him. This means “Ravana has not used any violence
and Sita of her own accord ran after him willingly.” Sita ought to have
followed Ravana voluntarily. Ravana could not have touched Sita when she
was unwilling. Why? Because, It was ordained by a curse that his head would
burst into pieces if Ravana touched any woman without her consent. There
was also Brahma’s curse that Ravana’s body would be burnt if he dared touch
any lady who was not amenable to him. Therefore Ravana would not and
could not touch any woman without her consent.
37. Reclaiming Sita as his wife after she was recovered from Ravana,
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 494

Rama was ruling the country. One day her 
sister-in-law, Kukuvavathy approached Rama and said to him, “O! Elder!
How you love Sita more than you love yourself! Come with me and see what
really is in your lovely wife’s heart. Still she could not forget that fellow
Ravana. Drawing a picture of Ravana on a hand-fan and pressing it closely to
her bosom she is lying on your bed with eyes closed meditating on and
rejoicing at his (Ravana’s) glories.”
At this juncture Durmuha, the chief of Rama’s spies, came to Rama and
 acquainted him with the news that the reclamation of Sita from Ravana (by
Rama) and accepting her as his wife was a subject of ridicule and scandal
among citizens. As he heard this, Rama flared up. The disgrace and sorrow
he felt within himself was reflected on his face. He sighed and went out with
his sister Kukuvavathy to Sita’s apartment. She was found sleeping pressing
to her breast the hand-fan in which Ravana’s picture was drawn. This is
found in pages 199, 200 of the book entitled as “Bengali Ramayana,” written
by Mrs. Chandravathi.
A close study of the events reveals that by the time Rama detected Sita’s
pregnancy, the approximate time during which her pregnancy could have
taken place should be within a period of one month shortly after Rama’s
return to Ayothia on reclaiming Sita from Ravana.
38. Sita was caught red handed by Rama that she had drawn the picture of
Ravana (“Notes on Ramayana” by Mr. C.R. Srinivasa Iyengar).
39. It is according to Ramayana, we say, that Rama is an unworthy man
and Sita an unchaste woman.
One of the several common instances to prove this is that Rama caused
his wife Sita who was pregnant to be left alone in the forest. This is a very
dreadful cruelty.
As regards Sita I say she was not morally pure because of her illicit
intimacy with Ravana. If Rama’s action is accepted as justifiable it should
also be accepted by all that Sita’s pregnancy must have been caused by
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 495

Ravana.
If defended that Sita did not commit any wrong and that her pregnancy
was by Rama himself, then, it should be accepted by all that Rama’s action in
having sent innocent Sita to the forest when she was pregnant is vile and
inhuman. Rama discovered Sita’s pregnancy and then sent her away to the
forest the very next morning.
In these circumstances any attempt to explain it away that neither Sita was
adulterous nor Rama a scamp would mean that adultery and rascality are
above reproach.
How then will it be fair to say that Rama came to the earth to teach
virtuousness to men and Sita to teach chastity to women?
If it should be viewed in concord with the preaching of the Brahmin that
what both (Rama and Sita) did was right would it not amount to misleading
the poor and ignorant masses? How can the reformers tolerate such absurd
notions? For these reasons we say on authority that both Rama and Sita are
characterless “characters”.
SITA’S PREGNANCY
From a close study of “Ramayana by Valmiki,” it is clear that Sita’s
pregnancy was not by Rama.
After killing Ravana, Rama returned to Ayothia with Sita and began to
rule the country after coronation. Then he sent away Vibhishana, Sugriva and
others to their places. Lastly, the “Pushpaga Vimanam” was also sent back.
Soon after the departure of the “Pushpaga Vimanam,” Baratha with folded
hands said to Rama, “O! Revered! You are a divine power! Within a month
of commencement of your reign all in the kingdom began to enjoy pleasure
and contentment!”
It is said that after ten thousand years of reign by Rama, one day Rama
and Sita were sitting together in the palace garden when he found out that
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 496

Sita was pregnant. This verse about “after the lapse of ten thousand years in
according to Mr. Srinivasa Iyengar who translated “Ramayana by Valmiki,” a
subsequent insertion and not written by Valmiki himself-vide Mr. C.R.
Srinivasa Iyengar’s translation of “Ramayana by Valmiki”, Uttara Kandam,
42nd verse, page 163. He says under his editorial notes, “it seems that this
verse ‘ten thousand years of reign’ was not made by Valmiki.”
According to “Ramayana by Valmiki” first verse in Bala Kandam,
Chapter 2, “Rama, after sending Sita to the forest reigned the country for ten
thousand years. He also made many Aswametha Yagams-vide Uttara
Kandam, Chapter 99. It is stated that this verse was interpolated to keep Sita
beyond suspicion. Thus Sita’s pregnancy was found out within a month and
thereafter she was taken to the forest by Lakshmana. While in the forest Sita
showed Lakshmana the formation of her pregnancy and added that it was
four months old. She said to Lakshmana “See my stomach! My pregnancy is
four months old.” Thus she bade him good bye. If such being the case, how
can it be held that a month’s pregnancy would become four months old, and
how can it be said that pregnancy would have been caused by Rama?
8. LAKSHMANA
As regards Lakshmana we do not see anything highly remarkable in his
character. Mention about Lakshmana is made in many places in Ramayana
for the only reason that he was always with Rama. It is nowhere found that he
was above an average man. It is a wonder how he was dubbed with the title
“Elaya Alwar” (Young Avatar).
1. He had a hand in the plot to deprive Baratha of his Kingship.
2. Rama suspecting Lakshmana’s loyalty allured him thus: “Lakshmana!
Even though the coronation is for me, you are going to rule the country
actually.” Lakshmana on hearing this threw himself body and soul to do
anything and everything to get Rama crowned. Sumitrai’s sons Lakshmana
and Sathurukana sided Rama and Baratha respectively - perhaps they knew
that they were not in any way entitled to the throne.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 497

3. Lakshmana heaped abuses on his father Dasaratha. He called Dasaratha
a “Knave”.
4. He proposed that his father “be put into jail.”
5. He expressed that his “father should be killed.”
6. He even said that “to kill the father is a Dharma (Righteous deed)
according to Manu.”
7. He said that “I would exterminate Baratha and his associates
completely” (Items 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 above, vide Ayothia Kandam, Chapter 21).
8. “It was god’s will that I was not able to get the throne”, thus Rama was
sighing. Seeing this, Lakshmana criticised Rama that “only cowards and
fools would talk about God’s will”.
9. “Kaikeyi and Dasaratha having made a prearrangement between
themselves now pretend to hold difference of opinion in respect of crowning
you only with a view to deceive you”, Lakshmana said thus.
10. He challenged, I can drive away Dasaratha and Kaikeyi to the forest
and put you in the throne.”
11. “If you are not disposed to have the coronation for yourself, I will
myself seize the kingdom and rule over it”, he said. (Items 8, 9 and 11 above
vide Ayothia Kandam, Chapter 23).
12. While leaving the country for the forest he said “he who rules Ayothia
decorated with prostitutes is the blessed man.” (Ayothia Kandam, Chapter
51).
13. He sighed, “Would we return safely to Ayothia.” (Ayothia Kandam,
Chapter 51).
14. Lakshmana seeing Baratha who came to Rama and entreated him in
most respectful and supplicatory terms to return to the country to be crowned,
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 498

growled at him and said, “I am going to kill him now.” (Ayothia Kandam,
Chapter 96).
15. When he saw Viradan in the forest he said, “I am going to wreak my
vengence, which I am having to Baratha who has usurped the throne, on this
fellow!” (Aranya Kandam, Chapter 2).
16. To Soorpanaka he said, “Sita is a characterless woman. Her breast
(paps) has grown old.” (Aranya Kandam, Chapter 18).
17. His behaviour towards Sita was such that made her suspect that he
had a love towards her and that he wanted to enjoy her.
18. “Let anybody carry away Sita! Let her die! What does it matter! Are
we to suffer for a mean woman?” Thus he spoke to his elder brother about his
(brother’s) own wife with indifference and irresponsibility.
19. Ladies like Tadagai, Soorpanaka and Ayomuki were tortured and their
features, ears, noses and breasts were maimed by Lakshmana.
20. “Rama having lost himself in grief has himslef come to surrender to
you. Show mercy on him.” Thus Lakshmana surrendered himself before
Sugriva.
21. Sometime hence Lakshmana sought the permission of Rama “to say
this same Sugriva”.
22. At the instance of Rama he, spoke lies to Sita and took her deceitfully
to the forest and left her there when she was pregnant.
23. Rama and Bharatha were both elder (brothers) to Lakshmana.
Lakshmana was subserreient to Rama and inimical towards Baratha.
Similarly Lakshmana behaved amicably towards Kausalya and detestably
towards Kaikeyi. What was this due to? Could it be other than his ambition
for the throne?
Let us have a brief study of the following persons:-
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 499

Baratha, Kaikeyi, Sugriva, Sathrukana, Sumanthara, Angatha, Kausalya,
Vasishta, Vibishana, Sumithrai, Hanuman, Ravana and Vali.
9. BARATHA
In him we do not find any merits to be rated high.
1. He stayed in his grandfather’s palace for ten long years as a playful
boy.
2. He returned to Ayothia only after he was sent for. He had not the
anxiety to see his father and mother and visit his home.
3. When, on his return from his grandfather’s palace, he heard of Rama’s
exile to the forest, he enquired if he (Rama) had raped any woman (Ayothia
Kandam, Chapter 72).
4. He heaped abuses on his mother and called her names “A virago, devil,
a harlot, a wicked and a mischievous woman, you better die. You run away
from the country. I am sorry to call myself your son.” In such vile and harsh
terms, he foolishly rebuked his mother who with great difficulty won for him
the kingdom which was lawfully due to him. He had not attempted to know
the facts and properly understand his mother.
5. He called his father a tyrant. (Items 4 and 5 above-vide Chapter 73 and
74, Ayothia Kandam).
6. While conversing with Rama in the forest he requested him, “Come to
the country and be crowned in the midst of merry-making royal ladies”
(Ayothia Kandam, Chapter 105).
7. Baratha also had many wives.
10. SATHRUKANA
A worst dunce.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 500

1. He abused his step-mother, Kaikeyi.
2. He knocked down Mantharai, beat her and broke her arms for she had
known the secrets from the beginning and was faithful and dutiful to her
mistress, Kaikeyi, to establish justice.
NOTE: It is notable contrast that Baratha and Sathrukana who abused
their father and mother and disregarded them, showed devotion towards their
elder brother Rama.
11. KAUSALYA
She conducted herself as the polygamist’s wives of a second rate family
do.
1. An unbounded ambition for crowning her son by any means was
always in her mind.
2. She was jealous of Kaikeyi and hostile to her.
3. “I have become old and all the charm in my (physical) body has
disappeared.” Thus she was feeling sorry (Ayothia Kandam, Chapter 20).
4. She had spoken ill of her husband without the least regard for him.
12. SUMITHRAI
She was a non-descript.
1. Knowing that her son would not be made king she was eager that Rama
should become king.
2. “Rama after the lapse of fourteen years would come back in a
moment’s time, would throw away Baratha and seize the throne. Don’t feel
sorry now.” Thus she consoled Kausalya. This clearly shows that both were
propensed against Baratha.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 501

13. KAIKEYI
1. She was brave and beautiful. She was the accredited queen.
2. One or two occasions she saved her husband’s life.
3. The kingdom was hers because she had saved her husband’s life and
he, Dasaratha, had made over his country to her while marrying her.
4. Whenever Baratha told Kaikeyi, “I shall hand over (kingdom) to Rama-
I have handed (it) over,” she had not raised any objection.
5. She strove hard to establish her right to the throne. She did not harbour
any wicked throughts or perpetrate anything ignoble.
14. SUMANTHARA
Though he was a minister he was not honest and upright.
1. He intrigued with Dasaratha and had continuously been his evil
adviser.
2. He had spoken most derisively of Kaikeyi, the King’s wife (Ayothia
Kandam, Chapter 35).
3. He also uttered lies.
15. VASISHTA
Guru Vasishta behaved no better than an ordinary prohit (Brahmin Priest).
1. Having known already that the country was Baratha’s he contrived to
crown Rama.
2. In a hurry he fixed the day for the coronation to suit the conspiracy.
3. The day he fixed (as auspicious) for the coronation of Rama ultimately
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 502

turned to be the day for his (Rama’s) banishment to the forest.
16. HANUMAN
He was an ordinary person. He had not played any intelligent part. The
fame and the name he had won, it is said, is all due to his many marvellous
deeds, which would not stand to reason.
1. He unjustly set fire to Lanka at dead of right and killed many innocent
and helpless people and thus caused damage.
2. He spoke to Sita in most obscene and slang terms on subjects (even
about penis) (Sundara Kandam, Chapter 35) not to be discussed with women.
17. VALI
Vali was in no way culpable.
1. He did not intend to kill his brother.
2. Sugriva picked up a quarrel with Vali unnecessarily.
3. Vali was by nature harmless and hence there was nothing wrong in
him.
4. Having made a promise to his wife that he would not kill his brother,
he entered into a fight.
5. He was a very patient and strong man.
6. He was a very upright and just man.
7. Nobody could dare to defeat him in an open and straight fight.
8. He was a beloved friend of many great men.
9. He mistook Rama for a honest man.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 503

10. At Vali’s death Sugriva spoke of his (Vali’s) nobel qualities and said,
“I am not going to live after losing such a noble brother. I am going to fall
into fire and die.”
As a justification for killing such a noble man (Vali) Rama said, “the laws
of Dharma need not be observed in killing beasts.” Was he (Vali) a beast?
18. SUGRIVA
He betrayed his brother.
He became a slave to Rama only to kill his brother.
19. ANGADHA
He was a man with no sense of honour and made friends with Rama who
had unjustly killed his father Vali.
1. He had no real love or goodwill towards his uncle (father’s brother)
Sugriva.
2. He behaved, like an unconditional slave having no opinion for himself.
20. VIBISHANA
1. Actuated by avariciousness to become the king of Lanka, by causing
the death of his brother Ravana, he surrendered himself to his family-enemy
(Rama).
2. When Rama and Lakshmana having been defeated by Indrajith fell
down, Vibishana lamented saying. “Relying on the might of Rama and
Lakshmana I came to them to shape my future. All my hopes have been
shattered. I am left in the lurch, having lost the kingdom. My enemy, Ravana,
is rejoicing at the fulfilment of his vow.” Thus he openly brought out his
covetousness for kingship. (Uttara Kandam, Chapter 49).
3. This was pointed out to Rama by Hanuman and Sugriva and others,
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 504

4. Rama who was also in the know of this, said, “We want only such
scoundrels.” (Uttara Kandam, Chapter 17).
5. He was crowned by Rama while Ravana was alive and he accepted it
most jubilantly. (Uttara Kandam, Chapter 18).
6. Subsequently he (Vibishana) disclosed many secrets to Rama.
7. He gave himself up to Rama and betrayed his brother under the pretext
that his brother Ravana had carried away Sita. The real cause that impelled
him was his desire to rule Lanka and not that he should be fair and just.
How?
8. He took no notice of Rama stepping into Ravana’s forest unjustly and
hunting the animals there in.
9. His blood did not boil when his sister and other women related to him
were maimed and dishonoured by cutting their noses, ears, breast and hair.
Some were even killed. He was not perturbed over all this.
10. To commend a wrong doer of many horrible blunders as an honest,
just and brave man and to despise his own brother (Ravana) who treated Sita
while in his custody honourably, as a naughty man-all these were not without
ulterior motive of defrauding his brother Ravana and taking possession of
Lanka. What can all these be but selfishness and mean mindedness?
21. RAVANA
1. He was:-
(1) A great learned man.
(2) A great saint.
(3) A master of scriptures (Sashtras and Vedas).
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 505

(4) A merciful protector of his subjects and relatives.
(5) A brave man.
(6) A very strong man.
(7) A chivalrous soldier.
(8) A very pious man.
(9) A beloved son of god and
(10) A recipient of many boons.
Valmiki himself made mention of the above ten merits and praised
Ravana on several occasion.
2. This Villainous Vibishana, envious of the sovereignty of his brother,
Ravana, betrayed him and brought about his death. Immediately after Ravana
died, Vibishana, however, overwhelmed with fraternal feelings, fell on the
corpse and wept, paying glowing tributes to Ravana and describing his noble
qualities. Vibishana said, “You never failed to do justice: You respected the
greatmen” (Uttara Kandam, Chapter 111).
3. Being unable to put up with the provocation on account of the insult,
cruelty and brutality done to his sister, Ravana carried away Sita to Lanka as
a retaliatory measure and not out of love towards Sita, nor with any motive to
seduce another man’s wife.
4. Hanuman himself described in his own words about Ravana’s
refinement in love affairs. “All the women in Ravana’s palace offered
themselves voluntarily of their own free will to be his (Ravana’s) wives. He
had not touched any women without her consent i.e. by force (Sundara
Kandam, Chapter 9).
5. Ravana hated Devas and Rishis. Why? They in the name of Yagam, i.e.
offering sacrifices to the sacred fire, committed the most heinous crime of
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 506

killing the poor dumb animals in a tortuous manner. For no other reasons he
hated them.
Valmiki himself said, “Ravana was a good man. He was magnanimous
and handsome. But he (Ravana) chastised Brahmins whenever he saw them
performing Yagams and drinking Soma juice (liquor).
6. Even at the gravest provocation, even in a fit of ungovernable rage, and
even at the most irrepressible incitement Ravana, said Valmiki, had not even
thought of mutilating the ears, the breast and the nose of Sita as a revenge for
what had been done to Soorpanagai by Rama and Lakshmana.
7. It was for a set purpose that Sita was left alone in the forest to make it
easy for Ravana to carry her away. And Sita too was expecting that Ravana
should carry her away and was making preparations accordingly. This view is
manifest in the interpretations made by many of the translators on this matter.
8. The meetings he held with his Ministers and the debates which are said
to have ensued there from, are the examples of his benign rule.
NOTE: The above observations about the conduct and the worthiness of
the characters in Ramayana are made wholly based on Ramayana by Valmiki
and the translation works in Tamil by Brahmins themselves. From this, our
readers will realise that the opinion they have been hitherto holding of them
(chapters in Ramayana) is totally incorrect. To make it clear briefly the
straight forward and right thinking men in Ramayana are degraded as
unworthy persons while the dishonest and perfidious scamps, are elavated as
most honest, godly and venerable elements. The object of this book is to
thrash out such misconceptions and impress in the minds of the credulous
that the cowl does not make the monk.
BENGALI  RAMAYANA
In the Bengali book “Lankavathara Sutra” it is written that Ravana was a
Dravidian King who embraced Buddhism and he was a philosopher of the
type of Plato and Aristotle. Because it was spoken so high of Ravana in the
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 507

Buddhist literature, the Brahmins and pandits characterised Ravana in such
vile terms in the Ramayana written by them. Keerthavasa in his works on
Ramayana says that Ravana ruled the land with love and grace.
Ravana while dying in the battle field called Rama to his side and
whispered into his ears about the doctrine of kindness and that the battle he
(Rama) had fought was only through deceit and fraud. Thus we find in the
Keerthavasa Ramayana that Ravana preached truthfulness and uprightness
(Page 124).
LIQUOR  VARIETIES  DURING THE  DAYS  OF  RAMAYANA
(Article by Dr. S.N. Viyas under the caption “Drinks in Ramayana” -
published in the CARAVAN, Delhi, dated 15-8-1954).
1. Kithai Sura: This name is given to alcohol prepared by boiling process.
2. Miraeya: Prepared out of spices. This is also called a liquor.
3. Madya: Intoxicating drink.
4. Mandha: This is a liquor devoid of excess intoxication in the ordinary
alcohol. This is also called Pitha Mandha. All like to drink this as there is no
toxication in this.
5. Surabanam: This differes from Kithai Sura. Kithai Sura is prepared by
artificial ways. Sura is a natural alcohol. This is prepared by natural
decantation process. This is the drink of the common people. Much was said
only about this in puranas (Mythologies).
6. Sidhu: This is prepared from the residue of jaggery liquid.
7. Sowvecraka: A low rate drink.
8. Varuni: Among the liquors used in those days this was the strongest
(concentrated) one (rich in intoxication). This made one stagger immediately
it was drunk.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 508

RAMA AND SITA - CHARACTERISATION
(Compiled from the lectures delivered by Periyar E.V. Ramasamy.
Reflections based on Ramayana written by Valmiki).
All the Brahmin authorities including the press are hostile to us in our
endeavour to expose the fallacies and the stench in the Ramayana. They will
publish in their papers abruptly that “Ramasamy Naicker called Rama a cad
and Sita a harlot,” tearing off a sentence or a word or two from my full
speech without giving the context and the reasons I advanced. What does this
mean? Their object is to set the people against me with such mutilated news.
Ramayana is only a fable and not a story of God as is held today by the
masses. This is a fact accepted by many. Mr. Gandhi himself exclaimed: “My
Rama is not that Rama of the Ramayana”.
Mr. T.K. Chidambaranatha Mudaliar nicknamed as “Kaliyuga Kamba”
has pronounced that Ramayana is not a divine story; it is only a literature.
The members of the “Baratha-Itihasa Samidhi” in Bombay with the help of
several learned men and with the financial aid of rich men like Birla have
written in their book on “Vedic Age” that none of the puranas (Hindu
Mythologies) have historic foundation nor are capable of teaching justice-
morals to the people and that they are mere fictions. Even Mr. C.
Rajagopalachari has declared that Rama is not a God; but he is a hero.
AN  INCARNATION  OF  GOD?
Several other research scholars and learned men are of similar opinions
and they do not call Rama an incarnation of god and Ramayana, the life
history of such a godly person. Besides, Valmiki, the author of the original
Ramayana too does not anywhere in his work give any attribute to Rama as
would qualify him to be looked upon as god incarnate. 
First of all, the origin from which the story proceeds is nonsensical. Here
it is said that Vishnu once killed the wife of Biruhu Rishi and hence this sage
(Munee) cursed him that he should be born as a man and should lose his wife
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 509

and grieve sorely. Thus one story goes. In another story it is said that the
same Vishnu enticed by the beauty of Birundhai, wife of Jalandrasura,
succeeded in killing her husband (Jalandrasura) deceptively and impaired her
chastity, disguising himself as Jalandra. Birundhai, who discovered in the
intercourse how she had been duped, cursed Vishnu that “a similar fate
should befall your own wife”. It was by this curse that he was reborn on
earth. 
In another place it is said that Thirumal i.e. Vishnu was in sexual
indulgence with his wife, known by the name of Thirumagal, in broad day
light when a Chief of the Slave Clan (Sivaganam) came there. Thirumal did
not mind the intruder and continued his intercourse with his wife. Enraged at
this affront he ran to Nandhi and reported how he had been disregarded.
There-upon Nandhi cursed him: “Let Thirumal be reborn on earth and let him
suffer losing his wife”. Hence Thirumal was reborn on earth.
How absurd are the reasons for the rebirth! Now about the family in
which he was born. Rama’s father, Dasaratha, besides his royal wives, had
60,000 other wives. It is to such an “ideal” father that Rama was born as a
son. It is said that Rama, Lakshmana and others were or on account of the
performance of a yagam i.e. sacrifice. Now let us look into the singularities of
the yagam. Several kinds of birds, beasts, insects, worms and all creatures
were killed and all such dead creatures were fried in the fire (said to be
sacred) and eated by Brahmins. Then the wives of Dasaratha were handed
over to the prohits Brahmin priests (who performed the yagam) who made
them pregnant. Pandit Manmathanath Thathar, a Bengali translator of
Ramayana, writes on this point:-
“Kausalya mowed down a horse in three cuts with such alacrity. She
spent a whole night with the dead horse without compunction. Hotha,
Adaryu, Uktha and other Brahmin priests (Rikvika) had sexual intercourse
with the royal ladies.” Such is the birth of the son of Dasaratha!
Should such be the process of incarnation? Should the story be so
awkwardly written?
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 510

DASARATHA’S  TURPITUDE
If we then look into the attempts made to crown Rama and the
arrangements planned therefor, the abject mindedness of the family of the
Kosala country and the moral turpitude of Dasaratha will come to light.
Baratha was sent away to his grandfather’s house and was not called back for
nearly 10 years lest his presence should hinder the coronation of Rama.
Arrangements for the coronation of Rama were made in a great hurry. No
invitation for the coronation was sent to the King of Kaikeyam. Baratha too
was not informed of the celebration. Dasaratha, in his private conversation
with Rama said. 
“Baratha’s absence in his grandfather’s palace is best suited for your
coronation. It should be finished before his return. The next morning it is to
be done. Your friends should safeguard you so that nothing untoward would
happen to-night.” 
All the members of the royal family as well as the people were joyous
over the function; but Kaikeyi alone who looked upon both Rama and
Baratha alike was kept in the dark by Dasaratha. She herself however, having
come to know of Dasaratha’s intrigue demanded more persistently that her
son Baratha should be crowned and that Rama be banished to the forest.
Dasaratha did not give any explanation or justification for having concealed
the affair without informing her but fell down at her feet and begged of her
shamelessly to refrain from demanding her boons. He accused her that she
spoiled all the arrangements made for the function.
He told Rama secretly that it was not really his intention to send him to
the forest but it was only to show that he was true to his word to Kaikeyi.
Further Dasaratha persuaded Rama to disregard his (Dasaratha’s) orders and
take possession of the kingdom. He desired all the State’s treasures, the army
and the prostitutes to follow Rama to the forest.
At the time of marrying Kaikeyi, Dasaratha had made a promise that the
son born to her would be the heir apparent to the throne. In violation of this
solemn declaration he made arrangements to enthrone Rama. And Rama, the
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 511

“honest man” agreed to it knowing fully well that the country belonged to
Baratha! Dasaratha’s ministers, the Guru (Religious Teacher), Sumandirar
and Vasishta lent their support to this nefarious act. On the pronouncement
made by his father (Dasaratha) that Rama should go to the forest, Lakshmana
howled that he would kill his father. Kausalya advised her son Rama to
ignore his father’s command and stay in the country.
FAR  BELOW  AN  AVERAGE  MAN
Thus Rama and his associates are described in Ramayana in several
places as men of a very low order.
As to the “virtues” of Rama it has to be said that he killed outrageously
the innocent persons. Thadagai under the pretext that she had not permitted
the Brahmin priests who, having entered into her domain unlawfully,
performed yagams in contravention of of law of her country.
When he was to go to the forest he grieved sorely and told his mother and
wife that the country which was about to come to his hand slipped off and
that he was also ordered to go to the forest.
He said to Lakshmana while in the forest, “Will any fool send to the
forest a dutiful and obedient son?” Thus filled with grief for not having got
the throne he spoke disparagingly of his father.
In the forest he caused Soorpanagai to be maimed because she loved him.
He entered into war wilfully, saying that, with the determination of slaying
the Rakshasas (Dravidians), he had come to the forest. For the sake of
Sugriva he covertly and cowardly killed Vali who had done him no harm. He
readily accepted Vibishana knowing fully well that he was a knave and a
traitor and that he had come to him (Rama) with the treacherous intention of
securing the crown of Lanka for himself, after killing his brother Ravana. He
also crowned Vibishana as the king of Lanka, while Ravana himself was
ruling over Lanka.
PERFIDIOUS  THOUGHTS
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 512

It will be seen throughout the Ramayana that Rama was hyprocritical and
knavish. He was up to anything. He was prepared to do anything or to
descend to any level to achieve his end.
When Sita was to accompany him to the forest he desired her to stay back
in the palace and act up to the sweet will of Baratha and by that he said they
could stand to gain much. At this Sita flew into a rage and cried out: 
“You are an impotent man! Not knowing that you are a woman in male’s
attire (eunuch), my father has given me in marriage to you. You talk like one
who earns his livelihood by lending his wife to others.” 
On hearing this he executed a somersault saying. “I wanted only to test
your mental attitude.” 
Then he took her to the forest. Whenever he felt that danger was
imminent he would decry Kaikeyi most unbecomingly that she would delight
in his (Rama’s) distress. He would grumble that as he had gone to the forest
and his father had become old, Baratha would be the absolute monarch and
none could question him. Then again what did he do? He killed Sambugan
because he, being a Sudra, had performed a penance. 
How can such an unworthy and meanminded knave as he, be called a god
incarnate? The cunning Brahmins, having made such a dishonest, impotent,
unworthy and characterless fellow as god, ask us to  adore him and worship
him. Should it not be incumbent on us to closely scrutinise all these fallacies
using our discretion?
There are the characteristics of Rama. Now let us turn to Sita. She is
spoken of throughout the Ramayana as only an ordinary woman, no, even a
virago, with no good qualities that are the requisites of a well-bred, modest
and chaste woman. Her parentage itself is doubtful. To whom she was born is
not known. It is said that Janaka while ploughing his field found her from
under the soil. To save her from ignominy it is said that Sita was not even
born through “goddess Mahalakshmi” but she herself appeared on earth as a
child. 
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 513

She remained as a spinster for a long time after maturity because of her
doubtful parentage. She herself expressed while in the forest most
sorrowfully that her marriage was delayed on account of her unknown birth
for a long time after maturity and she remained as an aged spinster. Baseless
and ludicrous is the birth of “Mahalakshmi” also. Even after this, there is
nothing commendable in her character throughout the story.
SITA’S  VANITY
When it was decided that Rama should go to the forest, Sita said that it
was already predicted in her case also by the astrologers that she would have
to live in the forest and in fulfillment of that she added that she also wished to
accompany her husband to the forest. Rama and Lashmana wore the barks of
the trees; but Sita did not prefer such dress. Thereupon Dasaratha ordered that
necessary clothes and jewels as would be sufficient for her for fourteen years
should be sent to the forest along with her for her use. She put them on with
great joy and dressed herself beautifully. The husband in bark clothes! His
dear and beloved wife in royal dress! Thus they departed to the forest. 
While leaving for the forest Vasishta, Sumanthira and others protested
against sending Sita to the  forest and not Sita. But to this Kaikeyi did not
agree and Sita was therefore obliged to follow her husband. The so-called
ideal, chaste women-Sita’s activities did not stop with this. 
Rama’s mother-Sita’s mother-in-law, seeing Sita’s great desire for jewels
and costumes admonished her saying: “Be worthy of your husband’s love and
not be silly”. To this she replied to her mother-in-law, “I know everything.
There is nothing for me to learn from you”. When Rama desired Sita to live
with Baratha saying, “You stay with Baratha” – she retorted that she could
not live with Baratha who despised her.
While in the forest whenever they encountered hardships or there was the
likelihood of troubles befalling them she would scold Kaikey harshly.
EVEN  A  VIRAGO  WOULD  SHUDDER
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 514

When Rama pursued the deer and when it cried in the agony of death,
“Sita! Lakshmana! Sita entreated.” Lakshmana was asked Sita to run to the
aid of Rama. Lakshmana replied to her “No danger could befall on my
brother”. At this she burst out and accused Lakshmana, saying: “Is it your
desire to seduce me in the event of Rama’s demise? Have you come to the
forest only with that motive? I know you and Baratha have conspired to
seduce me”. 
Lakshmana shuddered at this and humbly with folded hands said: “Oh!
Mother! I have never looked at any other thing except your feet; please do
not talk like this”. How did Sita react to this? She queried him: “By talking
like this do you intend to gain time to feast your eyes on me?”. 
Look at the  words that came out of the mouth  of a goddess i.e.
incarnate,” the mother of the universe-the mother of the world!! Even a
virago would shudder to talk like this. Yet Sita spoke thus. Such a virago is
held to be the better half of the all-pervading-omniscient being. She is said to
have incarnated on earth to teach precepts and morals to the people to live an
exemplary life. The ‘greatness’ of Sita’s life does not end with this!! There
are still something more.
RAVANA  DESCRIBES  SITA’S  BEAUTY  PART  BY  PART!!
Sita served food too to Ravana:- Enraged at her frivolity Lakshmana
departed, calling her a wretch with no modesty or dignity. Immediately as if
pre-arranged, appeared Ravana in the scene in the disguise of a “Sanyasi”.
Sita warmly welcomed him. In his turn Ravana began to describe the beauty
of sita’s eyes, her teeth, her face, her thighs and compared her breasts to the
palmyrah fruit.
“As I look and look at these parts of your body my passion becomes
uncontrollable. Your beauty corrodes my heart as the current of a river
corrodes the bank.”
Thus he went on describing Sita’s body, part by part. If Sita was really a
chaste woman, possessing an exemplary character that should be emulated by
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 515

one and all, what should she have done? Can any fellow accost our women in
such a vile manner? Even if he does, can he hope to escape? Will he not be
rewarded with whatever one lays one’s hands upon? But what did Sita do?
Enraptured at his description she served him food!!
SITA UTTERS HER FALSE AGE – SHE SAYS SHE IS AN
ADOLESCENT
After feeding him, she went on narrating to Ravana that she was the
daughter of Janaka, and wife of Rama and so on and so forth. She gave him
her false age-less than the actual. It was 13 years since she had come to the
forest at the time when she was talking to Ravana. She said then that she had
been staying in Ayothi for 12 years after her marriage. Again she said that
she was 18 years old when she came to the forest. How is this consistent? She
was for 12 years in Ayothi after her marriage. According to her she had been
for a very long time in her father’s house after attaining maturity as an
unmarried girl. But according to the account she gave in the presence of
Ravana she should have been married in her 6th year. Could she have
attained maturity in her 6th year? Granting that, could she have remained for
very many years in her father’s house after attaining maturity so early? Why
did she babble like this? It is only to conceal from him the appearance of her
old age. She should have ordinarily been above 45 then. As she remained
married for very many years after maturity she should have been at least 20 at
the time of her marriage. (12 years in Ayothi and 13 years in the forest and 20
(age) at the time of marriage and hence 45).
This is confirmed by Lakshmana. He said that Sita was an aged lady with
over-lapping belly. When did he say? Soorpanagai loved Rama and wanted to
wed him. Rama said that he had already a wife and that she might go to
Lakshmana a bachelor. She accordingly went to him. But Lakshmana refused
to marry her on the ground that he was a slave and again redirected her to
Rama saying that his (Rama’s) wife was old having an overlapping belly.
Anyhow, as the story goes, Sita was pretty old when Ravana met her. Being
actually old why should she have concealed her real age even when Ravana
described her, part by part in a jovial mood?
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 516

Just think over this! Is this the story of a so called chaste and godly
woman? What happened then? He revealed to her that he was Ravana and
urged her to start with him to Lanka. She refused. Presently, with one hand he
seized her by the hair and with his other hand on her thigh he lifted her up
and placed her on his thigh and carried her away. She cried. Thus runs the
story.
“MY PHYSICAL BODY SOMEWHERE,
BUT MY MIND WITH YOU”
Another noteworthy thing in this story is thus. Ravana had two curses;
one was that his body would be ablaze, should he touch any woman without
her consent and the other was that his head would be shattered into a
thousand pieces. Bearing this in mind, the Tamil poet Kamban writes that
Ravana carried away Sita along with that portion of the earth on which she
stood without touching her by his hands. To conform to these curses, another
version runs that Ravana carried not the real Sita; but only the illusionary
image of hers and a third version is that he carried away only her shadow.
But in the original text by Valmiki, it is clearly stated that Ravana touched
her person and pressing her in his lap, carried her way.
If in the teeth of such curses there had been any physical contact while
carrying her, his head and body should have been reduced to dust. But
nothing did happen to him. He arrived in Lanka safely and took her round his
palace. Even there nothing amiss happened to him. What then does it mean?
Rao Sahib Dinesh Chandra Sen B.A., a reputed Bengali history research
scholar and a member of the Calcutta University, writes on this thus:- “It is
my conclusion that there is no material to establish that Ravana carried away
Sita by force. At this conclusion of mine, the orthodox may burst into a rage;
but I am not going to change my view. If you tear off the curtain of literary
beauty, a mere skeleton will be visible therein.”
Ravana while with her in Lanka said, “Oh Sita! Don’t be ashamed. This
union of us is a divine arrangement. This is welcomed also by all the sages
(Rishis)” Sita replied, “You may use my body as you choose. I don’t care
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 517

about my body.” Rama while returning with Sita after Ravana was slain, said
to her: “You were so long in the custody of Ravana. Could he have left you
untouched and cohabit.” She replied, “What can I do? I was all alone and
more over a woman! He is strong. Nothing happened on my free will. My
mind was, is and will ever be with you.” She did not answer to the point. She
was beating about the bush. “I have no control over my body; but I can assure
you of purity of my mind”. In such qualified terms she had replied.
In the end after returning home when Rama asked her to swear as to her
purity, she did not do it; but she sank herself down into the earth and
disappeared. In other words, she committed suicide.
INGLORIOUS ARE THE SATELLITES OF RAMA!
As to her husband Rama, he was hypocritical, perfidious, effeminate and
dishonest. Her brother-in-law, Lakshmana was a tyrant who ventured to kill
his father. He was a rake who would not hesitate to do anything for the sake
of gaining the kingdom. Rama’s father even after 60,000 years of age was a
lewd profligate. He, without looking upon all his children alike, favoured one
and hated another. Rama’s mother had not cared about her husband. So also
Sumitarai. Dasaratha was dead. Kosalai and Sumitarai who were lying close
to him were fast asleep. They were roused from slumber by the mournings of
others who were around him. This indicates how indifferent their attitude
towards their husband was.
Sugriva and Vibishana whose friendship Rama contracted were
treacherous lubbers who had betrayed their brothers to win thereby their
respective kingdoms for themselves. The whole company was a gang of
rabbles. And yet they are deified! But the enemies of these so-called celestial
beings are applauded, according to the story, as the most honest and civilised
men.
THE GREATNESS OF RAVANA
Ravana’s chivalry was almost everywhere praised. The grandeur and
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 518

the beauty of his palace was admired by Hanuman himself. He compared
Ravana, whom he found sleeping in the Zenana in the midst of most beautiful
ladies in sleep, to the full moon shining amidst a galaxy of stars. He said that
all those ladies, enticed of his beauty, intellect and valour, came to him of
their own accord and no one of them was brought by force. He (Hanuman) is
also said to have mused within himself that if Sita had been brought to Lanka
before her marriage it would have been by far commendable.
Valmiki while speaking of Ravana in several places extols him to the
skies, that he was a great scholar, had performed severest penances, an adept
in Vedas, a benefactor of his subjects and relatives, a brave soldier, very
strong and robust, very chivalrous, a sincere devotee, a recipient of god’s
grace and several boons. Nowhere is Ravana belittled as Rama is (as an
intriguer and as perfidious and impotent). As Rama maimed the limbs of
Soorpanagai, Ravana could have done the same to Sita; but he never even
thought of doing so in return. Sita was kept in the Asokavanam (Garden of
Asoka trees) in charge of his niece (brother’s daughter). He was very good
and noble. Valmiki says that he despised Brahmins whenever he found them
performing yagams and drinking Somarasam.
Such good-natured Ravana and his men were called cruel Rakshasas
simply because they were the enemies of Brahmins.
RAMAYANA AS DEPICTED BY VALMIKI
The Ramayana could not have been a true story. The same opinion has
been expressed by persons like Sankaracharias, many intellectuals and
religious Heads.
Secondly Valmiki himself has stated that Rama is neither a god nor had
any divine power in him.
In this state Hindus consider the Ramayana as a sacred story and also
revere the important persons mentioned therein.
Why? This is due to the capable propaganda by Brahmins and want on
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 519

intelligence and self-respect on the part of the non-Brahmins. Whatever it
may be one should scrutinize the following in the Ramayana:
1. Is Rama a divine person or is he above ordinary human beings?
2. Is Rama a honest person?
3. Is he a hero?
4. Is Rama an intelligent man? Is he above caste prejudice?
5. Is Sita a chaste woman?
6. Does she possess at least the common virtues of an ordinary woman? Is
Ravana a rogue?
7. Did he carry away Sita?
8. Did he seduce and spoil Sita?
Among the Avatars of Vishnu mentioned in Bagawatha, which is
intended for Vaishnavites, Rama’s is one intended for the purpose of slaying
“Rakshasa” Ravana.
Informations (Avatars) of Vishnu: (1) Macha Avathar (2) Tortoise
Avathar (3) Pig Avathar (4) Ganga Avathar (5) Vamana Avathar (8) Krishna
Avathar (9) Balarama Avathar.
It is stated that all these nine Avathars (incarnations) are meant on behalf
of Brahmins (Devas) to kill their inimical Dravida Kings (Rakshasas). In the
nine Avathars, Brahmins based their fictitious story of Ramayana on the
Rama Avathar. This Ramayana story is similar to Periyapuranam based on
Nambiandar Nambi and other Saivite saints.
This Periyapuranam was created by saivites for piety similar to
“Leelamrutham” containing the story of Vaishnavite saints which was
already in existence.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 520

But the story “Ramayana” has been adopted from Kanda Purana of
Saivities, the difference being only in names and Ramayana has been built up
with a view to create more hatred against Dravidas (Rakshasas) than the
hatred exhibited in Kanda Purana.
The birth of Kanda Purana is much earlier than that of Ramayana, and so
it was written by only one person.
Since Ramayana has been written at a much later period and that too at
different times by many men, it is contradicting at many places in the story
itself. According to the description given in Ramayana about the principal
persons, Rama and Sita have been depicted as very low characters.
The life history of Rama begins with the killing of “Thadaka” by Rama as
a boy of 5 hiding himself some where and his marriage at the age of six.
For the above two incidents, Rama need not at all have been brought in to
the picture. When Rama was aged 18, his father Dasaratha conspired together
with Rama for the purpose of celebrating the coronation ceremony of Rama
as king of Ayothia, even though they knew well, that the kingdom of
Ayothya belonged only to Kaikeyi and her son Baratha who was the heir-
apparent according to the promise, already made by Dasaratha to Kaikeyi.
We are not concerned with the intrigues of Dasaratha, because Dasaratha
is not considered either as a high personage or was a well-principled man.
But what concerns us is that Rama is considered as a man of flawless
character, a person who can be followed by all as a man of truth and as a
great warrior. But this problem has not been explained satisfactorily by
anybody so far, including religious heads, and Rama and Ramayana devotees
(Bakthas).
Even Mr. C. Rajagopalachariar, the author of the book “Emperor’s son”
has not satisfactorily explained for the above defects.
Let us now go to Sita: Sita’s birth itself is questionable. That is, her
parentage is unknown and she was found in the forest. Regarding this there
are many versions.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 521

Valmiki has written that Sita herself has said: “As soon as I was born, I
was thrown in the forest amongst dust. King Janaka found me and reared me
up. After I attained my puberty no prince was willing to marry me on account
of the dishonour attached to my birth”. King Janaka finding himself unable to
secure a suitable husband for Sita approached his friend Viswamitra to help
him in getting a suitable bridegroom for Sita. Sage Viswamitra brought this
five-years old Rama and got him married to Sita who was aged not less than
25 years and she did not even murmur for this unequal match.
In another Ramayana (not Valmiki) it is said that king Janaka’s wife came
to the wedding place before the wedding and has shouted towards the
audience assembled there: “Gentlemen, you are assembled here. How is it
that you are all calmy witnessing this atrocious function”. No sooner the
bridal party reached Ayothia than Sita was disliked by Baratha. Valmiki has
said that this has been expressed by Sita herself.
When Rama before starting to the forest advised Sita to stay in Ayothia
 and to conduct herself pleasingly to Baratha for which Sita replied Rama
disrespectfully and very  humiliatingly. “What am I to do? Baratha does not
like me. How could I stay with him”! Besides these expressions by Sita,
Valmiki expresses through Sita herself: “O Rama! You are not a hero; You
are impotent; you want me to commit adultery with Baratha as if I am a
prostitute so that you may have the benefit of becoming the King of
Ayothia”. At that time Rama was aged seventeen years.
The following version has been expressed by Valmiki through the mouth
of Kosalai:- That is, when Rama went to his mother Kosalai to take leave of
her before he went to forest, Kosalai says “O, Rama! I have been ill-treated
by your father and my husband Dasaratha as well as my co-wife Kaikeyi. I
have suffered a great deal all these seventeen years. But for you, I would
have died.” From this we have to infer that Rama was aged seventeen years at
that time.
When Viswamitra requested Dasaratha to send his eldest son Rama with
him to kill Thadaka, Dasaratha replies as follows: “O Sage! Rama is a child
sitting on my lap. The ceremony of removal of the hair from the head, for the
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 522

first time has not yet been performed. How can I send such an young child to
warefare?” From this also it is evident that Rama was aged only five years at
the time of marriage.
So, it is clear that the young woman Sita who was in full bloom at the
time of marriage consented to wed such an young boy as Rama aged five
years. That is why she treated her husband Rama so disrespectfully.
Further, when Rama before going to forest asked Sita, to remove her
jewels and costly dress and to wear the cloth which he gave her. But Sita
refused to do so. Then her mother-in-law Kaikeyi, seeing that Rama was
wearing a hermit’s dress compelled her daughter-in-law Sita also to wear the
hermit’s dress over the jewels and the costly dress, which she was already
wearing.
When Rama chased the bogus deer and killed it, it shouted as, “O
Lakshmana”. Sita on hearing this, addressed Lakshmana: “I apprehend some
danger to Rama. Proceed at once and see what has happened,” to which
Lakshmana replied, “O Madam, that is the voice of the bogus deer! Don’t be
afraid, nobody can injure Rama; he is a very powerful man; he might have
killed that deer and the deer might have shouted like that; so you need not
worry.” But Sita refused to be satisfied with this explanation of Lakshmana
even though Lakshmana explained to Sita to the best of his ability. Then Sita
said, “O rogue! Do you think that you can enjoy me if Rama is dead? Did
Baratha send you with a view, that yourself and Baratha can enjoy me.” On
hearing this Lakshmana sped away.
When we are revealing the news concerning Sita, we are doing so not
with an intention of degrading her. Readers should bear this in mind. I stress
this.
We never believe in the very existence of Sita especially as described in
Ramayana, the alleged existence of Sita imaginary. Even that imagination is
based on utter foolishness. Further, it is nowhere to be found in Ramayana
that the author has not at all taken any pain to show Sita as a chaste woman or
a heroine, or a sensible woman, or at least a woman anxious to preserve her
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 523

mentality. On the other hand, it has been deliberately described that she is a
woman of no-character. Apart from this, not only Ramayana is a fictitious
story, but also, it is based on imaginary and impossible circumstances.
Sita has been described in Ramayana only as an ordinary human being.
According to Ramayana, since her birth, as a child found out from the forest
by Janaka till her death, by suicide by entering into the split up earth, we find
in her only ordinary human qualities and we do not find any divinity or
anything superhuman. So Ramayana Sita is only an ordinary human being. It
may appear as superhuman, to hear that she entered the fire-field, but really it
is no wonder because we see even today, even prostitutes treading the fire-
fields during temple festivals. Not only prostitutes do so, but also rogues and
scoundrels are walking over the fire-field even to-day.
If we carefully go through the Valmiki Ramayana we find that Sita was
pregnant at that time, and the pregnancy was of three months. We shall now
explain how Sita was three months old pregnant. As soon as the fire-testing
ceremony of Sita was over, Rama took Sita to Ayothi and ruled there. After
one month of the commencement of his reign one day, Rama and Sita were
seated in a flower garden and spending their time pleasantly as lovers, when
Rama happened to observe Sita’s belly which was bulging out. Immediately
Rama asked Sita, why her belly was bulging out to which Sita replied that she
was 4 or 5 months old pregnant.
On hearing this Rama immediately left the place with great anxiety and
sorrow and intended to send Sita to the forest. He was found to be sitting in
the front yard of the palace, down hearted, when the palace clowns observed
this and tried to change the mood of Rama, by expressing jovial words. In
spite of that Rama continued in the same state, and this was observed by his
brothers who began to enquire Rama the cause for his down-heartedness.
Rama questioned his brothers in reply, as to how the people in this State view
about Sita. His brothers replied that the people were saying that it was
degrading for Rama to live with Sita. At once Rama sent for his brother
Lakshmana and instructed him to take Sita to the forest next morning and to
abandon her there.
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 524

Accordingly, Lakshmana took Sita, the next morning and left her there,
when he criticized his brother Rama for sending Sita to the forest, simply to
avoid the scandalous talk in the country. But sita replied that it was not
justifiable to criticise Rama because she was five months old pregnant and
that it was her Karma. She showed also her belly to Lakshmana.
So we cannot presume that all the women who walk over fire are either
chaste or have divine power. So Sita, is only an ordinary human being.
Therefore, an ordinary human-being like Sita can live for 100 years or at the
most 10 or 20 years more, if she is hale and healthy. But when we go through
Ramayana, it is said that Sita lived for thousands of years. Let us consider
afterwards about the story, that Rama has lived for ten-thousand years. But
we could not understand how such a Sita too could live or such a long time
with Rama. By whom, this boon of long life was granted to Sita? How she
was able to live for such a long time? For these questions, we could not find
suitable answers in Ramayana.
Leaving these things, we shall now go to the portion where Sita and
Ravana are concerned. There we find that Sita has absolutely no qualities of a
chaste woman.
If we entrust the entire matter for investigation with a C.I.D. officer for
exploring the truth in the allged complaint against Ravana that he seduced
Sita and the investigation report is placed before an impartial judge for
decision and if the case is conducted on behalf of Rama as complaint and
Ravana as the accused, we are quite confident that the judge will decide in
favour of Ravana by pronouncing that he is an innocent man and that he has
been unnecessarily blackmailed.
Further, if a hunter sets a cage in a forest placing a fatty deer inside, to
tempt it as a prey for a lion and when the lion gets inside the cage and if the
cage is closed it can be made to show that the lion entered of its own accord
into the cage. The above-mentioned C.I.D. report would be similar.
MR. NEHRU’S VIEWS OF THE EPICS
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 525

(Extract from “The Mail” dated 15-12-1954 New Delhi Dec. 14)
The Prime Minister Mr. Jawaharlal Nehru referred to the staging of
parodies of Ramayana in Tamil Nadu and said these movements in the South
should be attributed to a sense of fear of oppression from the people of the
North India, not merely in the field of language but in other spheres as well.
It was a sentiment which had to be properly understood and champions of
Hindi who ignored it would not be helping the cause of Hindi, or the nation at
large.
“If we take any wrong steps,” Mr. Nehru said “our difficulties will
increase. Sentiment has a powerful effect, and when a sentiment of fear of
oppression is aroused, it has bad repercussions.”
Sri Nehru referred to dramatic parodies of Ramayana in Tamil Nadu, and
said: “We should find out what is at the back graud of these developments.
Such a parody of Ramayana, for instance, is intended to tell the audience that
the people of the North Indiahave suppressed them not only today but they
have done so for thousands of years and that if they get an opportunity, they
will do so again.”
MAHABARATHA STORY
What he saw in Orissa grieved Nehru.Continuing, Sri Nehru said: “Two
days ago, I was in Orissa. There I saw a farce about ‘Ekalaiva’. This is a
Mahabaratha story: a poor peasant sought the help of Dhrona, the great
teacher of archery of Kshatriyas, to learn the use of the bow and arrow.
Dhrona refused to teach him because he was not a Kshatriya, but the peasant
boy made a statue of Dhrona to serve as a teacher and began to practice
archery until he became a famous archer. When Dhrona heard that he had
become more famous than his own pupil, Arjuna, he asked him for his fee,
“Guru Dakshina” because he had learnt the art from his image, and the fee he
asked was the thumb of his right hand, and gave it to Dhrona. Ekalaiva’s
story is one of the most poignant episodes of the Mahabaratha.
“I had not given thought to this incident, but from that day, it has grieved
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 526

me. I was told these tribal people in Orissa were making it an example to
show how they had been oppressed. We should be conscious of such
reactions. The fact is that the history that has been written in the past has been
one-sided. People today accordingly write their own version of events. We
should not think that it is engendered by others. When I think of this story my
anger is roused at the way people behaved to prevent others competing with
them.”
VIEWS OF THE HISTORIANS
“Vishnu, popularly, was a deified hero, a great Kshatriya teacher,
reincarnated from time to time to instruct the Aryan race and led them to
victory”.
- Havell in ‘Aryan Rule in India’, (Page 32)
“The Dravidians were firmly settled in different parts of Northern and
Southern India more than four thousand years ago, when fair-complexioned
aryans gradually advanced from the north-west across the Hindu-Kush
mountans, and entered India through Afghanistan. The Dravidians naturally
resisted the newcomers with all their might and a fierce and protracted
struggle ensued. It was not merely a struggle between two nationalities, but a
conflict between two types of civilisation.
The Dravidians had to fight for their very existence, and there are several
passages in the Rigveda which indicate the severity of the struggle”
- Ramesh Chandra Majumdar M.A., Ph.D., in “Outline of
AncientIndian History and Civilisation” (Page 21 & 22)
“The Ramayana and the Mahabaratha deal with the days of Indo-Aryans,
their conquests and civil wars.
I do not think I ever attached very much importance of these stories as
factually true and I even criticized the magical and supernatural element in
them. But they were imaginatively true enough for me just as were the stories
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal

Page 527

from the Arabian Nights or the Panchathantra.”
- Mr. Jawaharlal Nehru in “Discovery of India” (page 75 & 76)
“The coming of the Aryans into India raised new problems-racial and
political. The conquered race, the Dravidians, had a long background of
civilization behind them, but there is little doubt that the Aryans considered
themselves vastly superior to them and a wide gulf seperated the two.”
- Mr. Jawaharlal Nehru in “Discovery of India” (page 62)
“The Ramayana story is one of Aryan expansion to the South”.
- Mr. Jawaharlal Nehru in “Discovery of India” (page 82)
“On the contrary, the Aryans had to learn the languages peculiar of those
races and to adopt a portion at least of their civilization”.
- Collected works of Sir R.G. Bhandarkar, (Vol. III at Page 10)
“The followers and worshippers of Indra and other deities were called the
Devas and the opponents of Indra worship and sacrifice were called the
Asuras (Dravidians), and these became the hateful terms to one party of the
other.”
- A.C. Dass, M.A., B.L., in “Rig Vedic India” at Page 151.
“The Ramayana distinguishes the Surs (Brahmins), who indulged
themselves in these liquors from Asurs, who abstaned from them”.
- The Historians History of World (Vol. II at Page 521)
*~~*~~*
COLLECTE WORK OF PERIYAR E.V.R. | Initiative by NEELAM MAKKAL | Follow us on Instagram: @Neelam.Makkal